WELCOME TO
THE MAY 16TH, 2003 REGULAR
MEETING OF THE NRA PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR A DETAILED
MEETING OUR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON PROCEDURES AND
AGENDAS DO WE NOT HAVE WE DON'T
HAVE ANY PAPER.
>> WE DO ON THE ENDS.
PLEASE HELP YOURSELF IF YOU ARE
HERE AND WANT A PAPER AGENDA,
COULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> MR. LEONARD.
YES.
BEFORE I CALL THE ROLL I JUST
WANT TO ANNOUNCE TO ANYBODY
WATCHING AND THOSE IN THE ROOM
WHEN WE ARE HAVING SOME
TECHNOLOGICAL ISSUES THIS
EVENING.
>> ANY CALLERS WHO ARE SHARING
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WE ASSUME
THAT IS EITHER BY PHONE OR BY
LAW AND TO ASSUME THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL BE ABLE TO HEAR
THOSE COMMENTS AS IS TYPICAL.
BUT THOSE THAT ARE WATCHING
THIS MEETING ON EITHER ON RN OR
VIA THE YOUTUBE FEED WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO HEAR THOSE UNLESS
OUR MASTERFUL CTM JR. IS ABLE
TO SORT OF METALWORKS MAGIC
WITH THE AMBIENT MICROPHONES IN
THE.
BUT JUST TO BE CLEAR, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WILL GET
ALL OF THOSE COMMENTS AND
EVERYBODY WATCHING WILL SHOULD
WILL BE ABLE TO HEAR ALL OF THE
DISCUSSION WITHIN THE COUNCIL
CHAMBERS WITH THAT AS
REQUESTED, I WILL CALL THE
ELECTION COMMISSION AND GET
BRANDELL PRESENT COMMISSIONER
RAYBANS HERE, COMMISSIONER
SAUVé HERE, COMMISSIONER MILNES
HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
ABSOLUTE COMMISSIONER DISH
HERE, COMMISSIONER LEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
COMMISSIONER HERE WE DO HAVE A
QUORUM OF SEVEN MEMBERS.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
THREE WHICH IS THE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION?
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DESH OTHER THAN
ANY DISCUSSION THAT I SEE YOU
HAND NO.
>> OK, ALREADY ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I.
>> OK WE HAVE MOTION CARRIES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING
THIS IS FOR THE MAY 2ND TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MEETING MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER TO SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> ANY DISCUSSION?
NO VOTE PLEASE.
>> I'LL DO SOME FAVOR I MOTION
CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
>> NEXT TO OUR REPORTS FROM
CITY MINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER ON AND ON.
>> SO WHY DON'T YOU KICK US
OFF?
MY PLEASURE.
THANK YOU.
TERRY BERRENDO LAST NIGHT CITY
COUNCIL PASSED ON FIRST READING
THIS SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST
PROJECT BUT PROMISED TO HAVE A
ROBUST DISCUSSION ON SECOND
READING AND WE PASSED A OVER
HALF A BILLION TO HALF A
BILLION WITH A B DOLLAR BUDGET
WHICH CONTAINS PROVISION FOR A
NEW PLANNER AND LOTS
OF INCREDIBLE WORK ON
SUSTAINABILITY WHICH WILL NO
DOUBT UP IMMEDIATELY ALL
OF THAT NEW PLANNERS TIME.
AND THERE WAS THERE'S ALSO
THERE'S BEAUTIFUL SOCIAL
RESOURCES ALSO JUSTICE WORK
BEING DONE.
>> SO I DON'T REMEMBER ANY
THING ELSE BUT IF MR. LEONARD
DOES, HE SHOULD CHIME IN ON THE
ITEMS AS I RECALL FROM THE
AGENDA.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER LAST
NIGHT AND MY STAFF FROM AND
ENABLING THAT I DIDN'T HAVE TO
BE THERE TO KNOW THAT.
>> AS FOR OUR PERSONAL PLANNING
MANAGER, ONLY ONE WE HAVE AN
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
MEETINGS SCHEDULED FOR NEXT
WEEK.
>> WE WILL BE DISCUSSING SOME
PROPOSED WHAT I THINK ARE
SOMEWHAT MINOR BUT HOPEFULLY
CLARIFYING ADJUSTMENTS TO OUR
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
GREAT.
ANY REPRESENTATIVES FROM
DIFFERENT COMMITTEES LIAISONS?
>> I WENT TO THE DDA MEETING
LAST WEEK AND THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE IS THE RTA IS GOING TO BE
THERE.
>> THERE ARE GEARING UP FOR
THIS THIS TRANSITION TO BEING
ABLE TO MAKE THE THIRTY MINUTES
TRIP FROM IPSI TO ANN ARBOR AND
SO THAT IS THAT'S KIND
OF MOVING IN AND GEAR AND AND
THEN THE OTHER PIECE IS THAT I
KNOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF EXPLORATION AND INTEREST IN
PUBLIC BATHROOMS AND THERE IS
AN INTERESTING PILOT THAT'S
GOING ON WITH A COMPANY CALLED
THE THRONE AND YOU MAY SEE SOME
INTERESTING THINGS GOING ON
AROUND TOWN WITH THAT.
>> IT'S KIND OF A YOU HAVE TO
USE YOUR PHONE TO GET IN.
YOU CAN HAVE A CARD PASS THE
ISSUE.
>> THERE'S SOME ISSUES AROUND
SECURITY AND PRIVACY THAT
THEY'VE BEEN KIND OF WORKING
OUT.
>> YOU MIGHT MOVE YOUR SORRY
YOU GET A LITTLE CLOSER THERE
SO STAY TUNED.
IT SEEMS REALLY INTERESTING IN
TERMS OF WHAT THEY'RE FIGURING
OUT.
IT'S NOT NOT AN EASY ONE TO
SOLVE SO IT'S CORRECT.
>> YES.
THOSE ARE A.D.A ACCESSIBLE.
ALL RIGHT.
>> YES.
SO ANY ANYBODY ELSE?
ALL RIGHT.
>> NOBODY ELSE.
SO ANY ANYBODY ELSE?
ALL RIGHT.
>> NOBODY ELSE.
LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
ALL RIGHT.
SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
>> SO OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS
SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
TO SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES
>> SO OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
TO SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES
LISTED ON THE PUBLIC HEARING
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
FOR THIS AGENDA.
LISTED ON THE PUBLIC HEARING
WE'RE CALLING INDIVIDUALS FIRST
FOR THIS AGENDA.
HERE AND THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
WE'RE CALLING INDIVIDUALS FIRST
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
HERE AND THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
RAISE A HAND FEATURE OF USING
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
RAISE A HAND FEATURE OF USING
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
AND INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
AND INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED YOUR
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED YOUR
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER BY
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
NAME.
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER BY
IF ACCESSING TO THE WEB LINK
NAME.
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
IF ACCESSING TO THE WEB LINK
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
QUIET AREA FOR EITHER METHOD
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
QUIET AREA FOR EITHER METHOD
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
WE START WITH FOLKS HERE IN THE
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ROOM.
WE START WITH FOLKS HERE IN THE
>> IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT
ROOM.
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AN
>> IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT
ITEM THAT IS NOT ON THE AGENDA
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AN
FOR TONIGHT?
ITEM THAT IS NOT ON THE AGENDA
>> MR. GARBER, I SEE I NEED NO
FOR TONIGHT?
INTRODUCTION FROM HAVERING
>> MR. GARBER, I SEE I NEED NO
OF COURSE.
INTRODUCTION FROM HAVERING
RIGHT.
OF COURSE.
I HAVE A REPORT.
RIGHT.
YES, SABRIEL COURT.
I HAVE A REPORT.
I'M TELLING YOU THE ADDRESS.
YES, SABRIEL COURT.
I'M SORRY I'M TELLING YOU YOUR
I'M TELLING YOU THE ADDRESS.
ADDRESS BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHERE
I'M SORRY I'M TELLING YOU YOUR
YOU HAVE NO COURT FOR OUT.
ADDRESS BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHERE
BUT I DO HAVE A REPORT BECAUSE
YOU HAVE NO COURT FOR OUT.
COUNCIL MEMBER STATION PLANNING
BUT I DO HAVE A REPORT BECAUSE
DIRECTOR LEONARD OMITTED ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER STATION PLANNING
ITEM FROM YESTERDAY'S PLANNING
DIRECTOR LEONARD OMITTED ONE
COMMISSION.
ITEM FROM YESTERDAY'S PLANNING
YOU SHALL GET RANDHAWA
COMMISSION.
REAPPOINTED FOR THREE YEARS
YOU SHALL GET RANDHAWA
ALONG COMMISSIONER CLARK AND
REAPPOINTED FOR THREE YEARS
COMMISSIONER WIFE.
ALONG COMMISSIONER CLARK AND
SO I CONGRATULATE YOU AND ALSO
COMMISSIONER WIFE.
I THANK YOU FOR DOING THIS.
SO I CONGRATULATE YOU AND ALSO
YOU PROBABLY KNOW THIS MEANS
I THANK YOU FOR DOING THIS.
ANOTHER THREE YEARS OF PUTTING
YOU PROBABLY KNOW THIS MEANS
UP WITH MY DEMENTED RANTS AND
ANOTHER THREE YEARS OF PUTTING
THE DERANGED COMMENTS OF OTHER
UP WITH MY DEMENTED RANTS AND
ANGRY MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
THE DERANGED COMMENTS OF OTHER
SO THAT'S WHY THEY PAY YOU A
ANGRY MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
BIG MONEY.
SO THAT'S WHY THEY PAY YOU A
>> BUT IN ALL SERIOUSNESS,
BIG MONEY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE TO
>> BUT IN ALL SERIOUSNESS,
THE COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE TO
I REALLY ENJOY THESE LISTENING
THE COMMUNITY.
SESSIONS.
I REALLY ENJOY THESE LISTENING
I'VE LEARNED A LOT FROM FROM
SESSIONS.
THE THREE OF YOU AND FROM
I'VE LEARNED A LOT FROM FROM
EVERYONE ELSE FROM THE
THE THREE OF YOU AND FROM
COMMISSION.
EVERYONE ELSE FROM THE
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO MORE
COMMISSION.
OF THE SAME.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO MORE
>> THANK YOU.
OF THE SAME.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM?
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYBODY IN LINE
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM?
VIRTUALLY DO
OVER THE PHONE?
>> NO ENDING WITH FIVE THREE
FOUR YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADJUST THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
WE'RE NOT GOING HOWEVER LATER
TONIGHT WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE
DOWNTOWN DON'T THAT'S QUITE A
LOT OF STAFF AND ESPECIALLY IN
TERMS OF THE STATE BUDGET BUT
THAT'S FOR DISCUSSION LATER.
OH, LAST NIGHT I READ THE CITY
COUNCIL AND ISSUE ABOUT
SUSTAINING THE OH SO I I KNOW
THIS PLAN VERY SERIOUSLY AND I
HOPE THAT YOU EVERY INVITE
DISCUSSION OR NOW I WANT TO
ABSORB SO WE CAN WORK TOGETHER
IN ONE DAY TO SEE WHAT EXACTLY
THEY ARE AND THOSE ARE THE
DOWNTOWN DOWNTOWN WHICH IS
OF COURSE YOU CAN CALL ON THE
HOW ABOUT GOING DOWNTOWN IF YOU
LIKE TO COME THE TWO GROUPS TO
THE GROUP TOGETHER WE HAVE
TREATED THE CHARACTERISTICS
OF THEIR ZONING, THE RULES
WITHIN THEM AND THAT'S TO THEIR
ADVANTAGE.
ONE CANDIDATE AND THE LAST
APPLICATIONS OF PLAY OR SEE
WHEN THEY ARE CONVICTED MR. WAS
A GARDENER AS YOU RECALL THERE
WAS NO APPLICATION IN THE SAME
BUILDING.
WHAT ENDED UP BEING APPROVED
BUT APPROVED AS A TEAM WHICH
GAVE NINE THOUSAND DOLLARS
SHORT OF THAT THREE HUNDRED
BRINGING IT TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND WHEN IT WAS
APPROPRIATE APPROVED ATTITUDE
RATHER THAT KEYWAY DECISIONS AS
A REQUIRED PART OF THAT WE KNOW
THERE WAS MORE GOING OUT AND WE
WENT TO SEE WHAT ARE THE
CHANCES IN THIS THAT ONE IF YOU
COMPARE THAT WITH THE D.A. PLAN
IF APPROVED UNDERACHIEVE, WHAT
IS THE MOTIVE FOR NINE MONTHS
WHILE JUST A SHORT AND FOR A
WHILE AND WHAT WE GOT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS COMMON IN
POPULATION MULTIPLE TIMES.
WE DON'T SEE MANY VARIANCES IN
PROJECT MODIFICATION.
THEY'RE NO LONGER ALLOWED.
I SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ALLOWED
TO TIME BECAUSE I'M NOT
COMPLYING WITH THE MISSION
OF THE ENABLING ACT.
SO WE GOT RID OF BUT WE SHARE
MY CONSERVATIVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND THAT HAD TO BE
WHICH IS THE ONLY DIFFERENCE IN
WHAT 30 MORE SECONDS WE GOT
AWAY AND SO I SHOULD THINK
LATER ON TONIGHT ABOUT
COMPARING WHEN THEY FIND THAT
WE HAVE PUT OUT NOW AND SEE
WHAT THEY ARE ALSO CONTRIBUTING
.
>> THEY HAVE CHANGED WHAT WILL
WE GET TO THE SAME BUILDING?
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT POSITION
.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYBODY YES.
WHO IS FAIR SQUARE BECAUSE YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE OH YES.
>> THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
YOU ARE CORRECT.
IT'S LUIS VASQUEZ FROM A
RESIDENT OF UPPER AND LOWER
ITALIAN IN THE FIRST WARD IN
ANN ARBOR.
I JUST WANTED TO COMMENT ON
SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FOREST.
I WAS PLEASED TO SEE IT PASS AT
FIRST READING LAST CITY COUNCIL
BUT I WAS KIND OF DISMAYED TO
HEAR THAT THE DEVELOPER WANTS
TO SCALE BACK THAT DEVELOPMENT
AND LOSE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
SEVENTY APARTMENTS WITHIN THAT
DEVELOPMENT.
AND ALSO JUST TO COMMENT ON
ZONING IN GENERAL DOING THINGS
BY PUDI PIECEMEAL IS REALLY I
THINK IN MY HUMBLE OPINION
QUITE INEFFECTIVE IN GETTING TO
THE GOALS THAT WE WANT
UNNECESSARILY DELAYS THE
PROCESS OF GETTING DEVELOPMENT
APPROVED AND I WOULD LIKE TO
SEE THAT CHANGE.
I I'M HOPING THROUGH THE REFORM
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN THAT ACHIEVES THIS AND
MAKES SOMETHING LIKE SEVEN
TWENTY ONE S FOREST AND WHAT
YOU'RE ABOUT TO DISCUSS WITH
SOUTHTOWN MAKING BY RIGHT
DEVELOPMENTS.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU KNOW OTHER SPEAKERS
INDICATED
OK, WE WILL THEN MOVE
ON TO ITEM NUMBER SEVEN WHICH
IS THE PUBLIC HEARINGS THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING WHICH IS JUNE
6TH.
>> WE HAVE TWO NEW PUBLIC
EXCUSE ME THE THREE NEW PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR TUESDAY,
JUNE 6TH FIRST HAS PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
FIVE PERMITTED USE TABLES AND
SECTION FIVE POINT ONE SIX USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TO PERMIT
AND REGULATE EVENT SPACE USE
AND ADDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS
AND SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
LANDSCAPE SCREENING AND
BUFFERING TO AMEND THE
REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO
AFFECTING LAND USE BUFFERS.
>> THE SECOND PUBLIC HEARING IS
FOR TWENTY ONE NINETY FIVE E
ELSWORTH LOCKWOOD PLAN TO
DEVELOPMENT TEXT AMENDMENT.
>> THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO ADJUST
THE EAST SIDE SET BY FOUR FEET
FROM ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY FOUR
FEET TO ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY
FEET AND THE SOUTH SIDE SET
BACK BY FOUR FEET FROM SIXTY
EIGHT FEET TO SIXTY FOUR FEET.
NO NEW CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED
AND LASTLY THIRTY NINE FORTY
FIVE TO THIRTY NINE FIFTY SEVEN
SOUTH STATES TYPE PLAN AND
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE A
PROPOSAL TO REDUCE THE SIZE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING AT
THIS LOCATION BY ONE THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET AND ADD A DRIVE
THRU LANE ALONG THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING.
THANK YOU.
>> OK WE ARE ON TO OUR WE DON'T
HAVE ANY UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO
WE ARE NO ITEM NUMBER NINE
WHICH IS REGULAR BUSINESS AND
NINE A IS THE SOUTHTOWN
REZONING SITE PLAN ON STREET
VACATION.
THIS IS SIXTEEN ONE SOUTH STATE
STREET A PROJECT WITH THREE
PETITIONS TO REDEVELOP THE
BLOCK BOUNDED BY SOUTH STATE
STREET, WHITE STREET, HENRY
STREET AND STIMPSON STREET A
PETITION TO REZONE A BLOCK
OF TEN PARCELS FROM OUR FORESE
MULTIFORM DWELLING TO SEE ONE
HOUR WITH CONDITIONS CAMPUS
BUSINESS, RESIDENTIAL WITH AN
OFFER TO REDUCE THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT LIMIT TO ONE HUNDRED
FEET SET MAXIMUM VEHICLE
PARKING LIMIT 2.5 PER DWELLING
UNIT AND SET A MINIMUM ACTIVE
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT OF FIFTY
SQUARE FEET PER DWELLING UNIT
TO A SITE PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT BY 2020
SQUARE FOOT MIXED USE BUILDING
WITH GROUND FOR GROUND FLOOR
RETAIL OFFICE AND CHILD CARE
SPACE AND APPROXIMATELY 215
APARTMENTS AND THREE A PETITION
TO VACATE THE PUBLIC ALIAN THE
BLOCK SITE INCLUDES ADDRESSES
SIXTEEN ONE SOUTH STATE STREET
SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND STREET
SIXTY SEVEN SOUTH STATE STREET
SIXTY NINE SOUTH STATE STREET
SIXTEEN ELEVEN SOUTH STATE
STREET SIXTY SIX WHITE STREET
LET'S SEE AND WHICH IS 72000
ONE HUNDRED FORTY 72000 148
SQUARE FEET IT'S ONE POINT
SEVEN ACRES ZONED OUR FORESE
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
POSTPONEMENT SO THE PETITIONER
HAS TEN MINUTES I PRESUME THAT
WE ARE ABOUT TO HAVE SOMEBODY
VACATE OUR I'M GOING TO LEAVE
AT THIS POINT BASED ON MY
INVOLVEMENT IN THE PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU
.
WAIT FOR
YEAH.
UNLESS THERE'S SOME
COORDINATION THAT NEEDS TO
HAPPEN BETWEEN THE TWO OF YOU
SO BE READY TO GO.
>> YEAH.
LITORAL YEAH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR HAVING
US HERE TONIGHT.
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO TALK
ABOUT THIS PROJECT MYSELF.
I'M ADAM SMITH AND THE DIRECTOR
OF DESIGN OF SCHENECTADY.
BRANDON CHANEY'S OUR CIVIL
ENGINEER ON THE PROJECT FROM
NETREBKO SIDNEY MARGOLSKEE HERE
FROM OUR TEAM AS WELL.
>> SHE'S OUR STUDIO DIRECTOR.
WE'VE ALL BEEN WORKING ON THIS
PROJECT.
THE OWNERS COULD NOT BE HERE
TONIGHT UNFORTUNATELY.
>> BUT AS YOU CAN SEE HERE ON
THE THE FIRST SIDE THIS IS OUR
OUR FULL TEAM HERE WITH ASPECTS
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
OF VANCOUVER HELPING HELPING US
ON THE PROJECT, WORKING ON THE
PROJECT ENGINEERING FOR
ELECTRICAL AND CREAMPUFF
ENGINEERING FOR MECHANICAL
PLUMBING.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING TOGETHER FOR
A YEAR ON THIS PROJECT SO FAR
TO TO GET TO THE POINT WHERE
IT'S AT NOW.
SO THE THREE THREE POINTS
OF THIS ARE THE REZONING, THE
VACATION AND THE SITE AND IN
CONTEXT THIS IS VERY CLOSE TO
CAMPUS BETWEEN JUST SOUTH
OF EAST STADIUM ON SOUTH STATE
STREET IN BETWEEN THAT AND
SOUTH INDUSTRIAL WITHIN A HALF
MILE YOU HAVE WALKABILITY TO
THE STADIUMS, TO THE ATHLETIC
CAMPUS TO LOWER BRYANT PARK AND
TO MULTIPLE AMENITIES AROUND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD ACROSS SOUTH
ST. STREET YOU HAVE THE FULL
ATHLETIC CAMPUS AND SOUTH STATE
STREET IS A MAIN THOROUGHFARE
TO CENTRAL CAMPUS AND THEN DOWN
TO 094 AND THE TICK ONE ZONING
THEY'RE CALLED OUT IN.
THESE ARE ALSO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT THIS IS BECOMING A FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD WITH ALL
OF THESE AMENITIES THINGS LIKE
REVEL AND ROLL BENNY'S DINER
PRODU STATION BEER CAMP, THE
TENNIS CENTER DOWN THE STREET
RU'S THOROS THESE ARE MAJOR
LOCAL BUSINESSES AND THIS
DEVELOPER FOR HIM THEY'VE BEEN
WORKING IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY KNOW THIS THESE NEIGHBORS
HERE AND THIS PROJECT IS REALLY
A PART OF GROWING THIS EVEN
MORE INTO A 15 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD FOR THIS SPACE
THAT RECENTLY DEVELOPED VENUE
THERE AS WELL.
SO THE LAND USE PLAN CALLS OUT
THIS AREA YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
LITTLE GREEN SQUARE AT THE TOP
HERE THAT'S THAT'S THE SITE
ALONG NUMBER FIVE.
IT'S CALLED OUT TO BE AN AREA
WHERE MIXED USE AND RESIDENTIAL
COULD COULD HAPPEN AND THEN
AREA ONE OF THE SOUTH STATE
STREET CORRIDOR PLAN ALSO CALLS
OUT DEVELOPING NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT MIXED USE AND YOU CAN
SEE BY ADOPTING T ONE IT'S
ALREADY BLENDING INTO THAT AREA
ONE FOR MORE MIXED USE AND MORE
MULTI-MODAL TRANSIT ALONG THAT
CORRIDOR KNOWING THAT THERE IS
GROWING THE ZONING AROUND THE
AREA IS PRETTY MIXED.
SO SOUTH OF IT IS MORE
COMMERCIAL AND THEN AND ONE
ZONES WITH OUR ONE HOUR BEFORE
C RIGHT NEXT RIGHT NEXT TO IT
AND THEN FURTHER BY THE WAY IS
THAT IS A C WHEN THEY ARE
ZONING AS WELL PACKARD AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY TO THE TO THE TO THE
EAST IS OR TO THE WEST IS THE
CAMPUS UVM CAMPUS.
SO WE CHOSE C ONE AREA ZONING
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE NEEDS
OF THIS PROJECT AND WE THINK
THE THREE HUNDRED PERCENT FAVOR
IT WORKS WELL FOR THIS THIS
SITE WE ALSO WORKED WITH THE
HEIGHT SO THAT THE MARSING
DOESN'T PRODUCE LARGE SHADOWS
ACROSS ONTO OUR NEIGHBORS WHO
ARE THE ANN HOUSING COMMISSION
RIGHT TO THE NORTH.
SO EVEN IN THE WINTERTIME YOU
GET THIS THIS MOMENT WHERE THE
SUNLIGHT STILL MOVES ACROSS THE
THE FACADE OF THE BUILDING TO
THE NORTH.
SO AS TO NOT BLOCK A LOT
OF SUNLIGHT AND THE THE
BUILDING MASS ON WHITE STREET
IS BROUGHT DOWN AS WELL SO THAT
IT IS NOT TOO TOO TALL AGAINST
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND NOT
PRODUCING SHADOWS ACROSS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL.
RIGHT NOW THERE'S THIRTY
DWELLING UNITS IN TEN
STRUCTURES ON THAT SITE AND
WE'RE PROPOSING TO HAVE ONE
HUNDRED AND I CAN'T SEE THE
NUMBER EXACTLY ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY I THINK IT IS ON THEIR
NEW DWELLING UNITS IN THIS
STRUCTURE HERE WHICH FITS INTO
THE THE MIX OF OF SCALE IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WITH THE
LIMITED PARKING THAT WE'RE
WE'RE OFFERING HERE.
WE ALSO KNOW THIS IS A VERY
HEAVILY OR STRONG MULTIMODAL
AREA WITH THREE BUS ROUTES
DIRECTLY ON THE BLOCK THAT TAKE
YOU FROM DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR TO
THE MEDICAL CAMPUS ON
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO
TRADER JOE'S TO THE MALL TO
SAINT JOSEPH HOSPITAL TO WIN
OVER TO WASHTENAW TO TO
YPSILANTI AND OLIVER AND THE
BIKE LANES THAT ARE THERE NOW
AND WHAT'S PROPOSED TO HAVE IT
ALL AGES AND ABILITIES NETWORK
ALONG THE SOUTH STATE STREET
CONNECTING UP TO THE CENTRAL
CAMPUS AND DOWN TOWARDS THE
MALL AND THEN ALSO THE PROPOSED
TREE LINE TRAIL RUNNING ALONG
THE TRAIN TRACKS.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
AND THEN ALSO ANOTHER
CONNECTION ACROSS STIMPSON TO
CONNECT TO WHAT'S ALREADY A OK
BIKE LANE ON SOUTH INDUSTRIAL.
SO WE SEE IT'S A VERY GOOD NON
MOTORIZED TRANSIT SPOT.
THE VACATION IS JUST FOR THIS
STRIP DOWN THE CENTER OF THE
SITE THAT CONTAINS A OVERHEAD
LANE THERE AND THEN WE ARE
REMOVING SEVEN CURB CUTS THAT
ARE EXISTING AND REPLACING IT
WITH TWO NEW ONES THAT ARE ONLY
ON HENRY STREET AND WHITE
STREET SO THERE'LL BE NO CURB
CUTS ON SOUTH STATE STREET AND
NO CURB CUTS ON STIMPSON AS THE
HOPEFULLY NOT HAVE DELIVERY
VEHICLES STOP ON THOSE STREETS
AND THERE'S NO ENTRY'S OFF
OF SOUTH STATE STREET SO
POSITION OUR ENTRIES ALONG
HENRY AND WHITE AND THE
PACHYDERMS ARE ALSO ALONG
THOSE.
SO KNOWING THAT DELIVERIES ARE
GOING TO TAKE THE EASIEST
TRAVEL ROUTE WE POSITION
BLOBBIES MAIL ROOMS PACKAGES AT
SPOTS WHERE IT'S NOT ON STAMPS
IN STATE STREET WE'RE USING
WE'RE USING THE TEN FOOT SET
BACK AROUND THE MOST OF THE
SITE AND THEN ON THE STATE
STREET SIDE WE'RE ACTUALLY
USING THE FIVE FOOT MINIMUM
WHICH IS AN EXCEPTION THAT WE
CAN USE AS LONG AS THE AREA
OF SETBACKS AROUND THE ENTIRE
SITE MEET CERTAIN SQUARE
FOOTAGE.
WE'RE WELL ABOVE THAT PART
OF THE PART THE ZONING
ORDINANCE AND ULTIMATELY WE
HAVE A COUPLE OF PUBLIC THERE'S
A STILL A FEW ENGINEERING
COMMENTS THAT ARE ON THE STAFF
REPORT THAT WE'RE STILL WORKING
.
WE'VE BEEN GOING BACK AND FORTH
WITH STAFFING AND PLANNING TO
TO ADDRESS THESE COMMENTS THAT
WE HAVE ADDRESSED ALL THESE
NOTING THAT THE TRASH DUMPSTERS
WILL BE LARGER.
WE HAVE A RIGHT OF WAY
CONTAINED FOR THE STREET LIGHT
AT THE CORNER AND THOSE ARE ALL
ADDRESSED COMMENTS.
SO IT'S ACTUALLY THREE
BUILDINGS COMPLETELY SEPARATED
BY A CONCRETE PODIUM AT THE
BASE AND THEN TWO
BUILDINGS ON
TOP OF IT BECAUSE OF THE
BUILDING CODE IT CAN ONLY BE SO
BIG FOR THE TYPE
OF CONSTRUCTION WE'RE USING.
SO IT'S THREE SEPARATED
BUILDINGS, THE PARKING SPACES
UNDERNEATH WE HAVE FIFTY THREE
PARKING SPACES WITH EIGHT EV
CHARGING STATIONS AND EIGHT AND
THE REST ARE CAPABLE.
WE'RE GOING NEXT FOR A ZIBA FOR
A ZONING VARIANCE BECAUSE WE DO
HAVE AN EXTRA WE WE'RE LUCKY TO
HAVE THE PARKING INDOOR PARKING
AREA NOT TOWARDS THE FAR
BECAUSE WE HAVE A HIGH WATER
TABLE.
IT'S TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE FOR
US TO PUT THE PARKING DOWN THAT
LOW AND THEN ALSO HAVE
STORMWATER DETENTION UNDERNEATH
IT.
WE'D BE IN THE WATER.
SO OUR PROPOSED IS TO HAVE THE
COVERED PARKING WITH A PARK ON
TOP OF IT AND THE OTHER OPTIONS
ARE PARKING WITH NO PARK, NO
PARKING WHICH WOULD BE MORE
OF AN ISSUE AND THEN NOT BEING
ABLE TO GET IT INTO THE WATER
TABLE.
SO THE BUILDING IS BUILT AS A
AS A BUILDING ON TOP OF A PARK
IN THIS AREA IS ALL ACCESSIBLE
TO THE PUBLIC ON TOP AND IT'S
ALL IT'S ALL OPEN, FLEXIBLE AND
GARDEN AREA.
WE ALSO HAVE A LOT OF BIKE
PARKING AROUND.
I MYSELF IS A BIKE RIDER.
WE HAVE FIVE TIMES THE AMOUNT
OF CLASS A BIKE PARKING ON THE
GROUND LEVEL SO THIS DOESN'T
INCLUDE ANYTHING IN UNITS BUT
AT DIFFERENT LEVELS OF UNGROUND
BIKE PARKING AND RACKS OF BIKE
PARKING FOR MORE DENSITY BUT
KNOWING THAT BIKES ARE HEAVY
AND THEY SHOULD BE ON THE
GROUND AS WELL.
A LOT OF THESE SPACES AROUND
HERE FOR VISITORS AS WELL NOT
JUST FOR PEOPLE LIVING THERE
THE STREET DESIGN WE'VE WE'VE
SET BACK FROM WE MEET OUR
MINIMUM FIVE FOOT SET BACK ON
STATE STREET AND ALSO GET THE
SIDEWALK AMENITIES SPACE ALONG
THAT STREET.
SO IT'S A LOT OF SPACE FOR
PEOPLE AND SAME THING ON
STIMPSON WE SEE THIS SPACE FOR
PEOPLE THERE THE SIXTH LEVEL
AND UP HAVE A GREEN ROOF AND
SOLAR PANELS ALL AROUND.
I CAN ADDRESS A LOT OF THESE
LATER TOO AND THEN WE HAVE A
LOT GOING ON SUSTAINABILITY
WISE SOLAR POWER WE'RE WORKING
THROUGH GEOTHERMAL AND A LOT
OF INSULATION TO TRY TO MEET
PASSIVE HOUSE BASELINE PASSIVE
STANDARDS.
WE'RE DOING A PENALIZED SYSTEM
FOR CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
MASTIN AND KELTIE TO REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF NOISE DARK SKY
LIGHTING BIRDS SAVE GLASS WILL
BE INSTALLED THROUGHOUT THE
SITE THROUGHOUT THE BUILDING
THE MATERIALS THE BUILDING ARE
ACTUALLY PRETTY SUSTAINABLE.
THEY CLEAN THE AIR AS THEY SIT
THERE.
WE PAPERING PAVERS THAT ACT AS
WATER SEQUESTRATION IN ON THE
SITE AS WELL AS THE WORLD'S
ATTENTION.
THIS IS A DATA WE CAN
COVER ABOUT CO2 THAT IT'S BEING
BUILT WITH PLANES OF UNITS, A
LOT OF DIVERSITY OF UNIT TYPES
TWO BEDROOMS, ONE BEDROOM
STUDIOS AND THAT IS IT.
SO I WANT TO THANK YOU BEFORE
MY TIME IS UP.
THERE'S A LOT TO GO THROUGH AND
I'M SURE THERE'LL BE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT SO LOOKING
FORWARD TO IT.
THANKS.
YOU GOT YOU GOT IT RIGHT THERE
UNDER THE CAR DOOR.
>> YEAH YEAH.
>> I'M SURE WE'LL HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GO THROUGH A LOT
BUT FIRST WE MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION
.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
UM I FELT THAT ADAM DID A GREAT
JOB AND FEEL OPPOSITE NOW AND
DID A GREAT JOB EXPLAINING THE
PROJECT.
>> UM I'M JUST GOING TO GO OVER
A BIT IN THE STAFF REPORT
FOCUSING ON OUR STAFF ANALYSIS
.
BUT AS MENTIONED THIS IS
ACTUALLY THREE PETITIONS IN ONE
.
SO THERE ARE THREE MOTIONS TO
PASS TONIGHT.
>> THE FIRST IS A PETITION TO
REZONE IT IN THE CURRENT ZONING
SEE ONE NO CURRENT ZONING IS
OUR FORESE AND THE PROPOSED
ZONING DESIGNATION IS C1 A
CIGAR WITH CONDITIONS ATTACHED
TO THE STAFF REPORT INCLUDED IN
THE PACKET IS OUR TEMPLATE THAT
FORMALIZES AND DOCUMENTS THE
CONDITIONS THESE WERE
VOLUNTARILY OFFERED BY THE
OWNERS AND APPLICANT TEAM AND
THEY IMPOSE A HEIGHT LIMIT A
MAXIMUM VEHICLE PARKING LIMIT
AND A MINIMUM ACTIVE OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT PROJECT ALSO
INCLUDES A SITE PLAN AND A
STREET VACATION PETITION.
BEAR WITH ME A SECOND REPEATING
MYSELF BUT THEY ARE REQUESTING
REZONING FROM OUR FORESE WHICH
IS A MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
TEN DWELLING UNITS PER ACRE TO
SEE ONE EIGHT ARE CAMPUS
BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL WITH THE
CONDITIONS I HAD MENTIONED THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING OFFER LETTER
CAN BE FOUND IN THE FILE AS
WELL AS A PETITION THAT
ADDRESSES SOME QUESTIONS TO
HELP THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WITH THEIR DELIBERATIONS.
>> WE HAVE PROVIDED IN THE
STAFF REPORT A COMPARISON CHART
OF MOST OF THE ZONING
DISTRICTS.
MOST OF THE PARAMETERS ARE
FORESE AND SEE WHEN OUR
DISTRICT I.
I WOULD NOTE THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS A WHOLE
ENCOURAGES MORE DENSE
DEVELOPMENT WITH A PARTICULAR
EMPHASIS ON MORE HOUSING
OVERALL AND A WIDER RANGE
OF HOUSING TYPES AND ENCOURAGES
MORE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS
LIVING ARRANGEMENTS THAT ENABLE
LESSER NO RELIANCE ON PERSONAL
VEHICLES AND REDUCED VEHICLE
TRAVEL MILES CITY COUNCIL AND
PLANNING COMMISSIONS DO SUPPORT
HAVE IN THEIR ACTIONS HAVE
SUPPORTED PROJECTS THAT FURTHER
THESE GOALS THE POLICY WHEN A
ARE DISTRICT DESIGNATION IS A
REASONABLE CHOICE TO MEET THOSE
GOALS GIVEN THE SITE'S
PROXIMITY TO CAMPUS AND
ALTHOUGH THE OUR FORESEE
DISTRICT AND SEE WHAT THEY ARE
ONE IS A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT,
ONE IS A MIXED USE DISTRICT.
THEY ARE A LITTLE BIT APPLES
AND ORANGES IN TERMS OF BEING
ABLE FOR A DIRECT COMPARISON
BUT FOR ARGUMENT'S SAKE THE ARE
FORESE DISTRICT PROBABLY HAS AN
R OF ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
WE SUGGEST THAT BECAUSE A
TYPICAL DEVELOPMENT IS A TWO
STOREY BUILDING COVERING ABOUT
HALF THE SITE SO THAT'S ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT FAVOR AND
THE CWA OUR DISTRICT IS THREE
HUNDRED PERCENT.
SO IT SEEMS THAT THE PROPOSED
REZONING IS MOVING TOWARD ABOUT
THREE TIMES THE DENSITY AS WHAT
COULD BE CURRENTLY ACHIEVED.
AGAIN IT'S APPLES TO ORANGES
BUT FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES I
FEEL THAT THIS IS IN THE
BALLPARK AND AH AND ALTHOUGH
OUR CITY UTILITIES, OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE AND OUR
CERTAINLY OUR DESIRES SUPPORT
THE REZONING THE SCALE OF THE
AREA IS IS MORE IN THE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY AND SO
STAFF SUPPORT THE REZONING WITH
TWO CONDITIONS ONE THAT THE
DEVELOPMENT PROVIDES 19 FEET
OF STEP BACK FROM THE BACK
OF THE CURB TO THE BUILDING
FACE THIS ENABLES THE SPACE
NEEDED SO THAT THIS HIGHER
LEVEL, THIS MORE URBAN LEVEL
OF PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES FOR THE
NUMBER OF RESIDENTS THAT WE CAN
EXPECT CAN BE ACCOMMODATED AND
THE SECOND CONDITION THAT FOR
OUR SUPPORT IS THAT THE
DEVELOPMENT CONFORMS TO THE
STANDARDS OF THE CWA, OUR
DISTRICT TO WHICH IT HAS TO
WHICH IT HAS REQUESTED.
>> AND WITH THOSE TWO
STIPULATIONS THE PROPOSED
REZONING WILL BE IN KEEPING
WITH THE GOALS OR APPLICABLE
GOALS, POLICIES AND STANDARDS
FOR DEVELOPMENT.
>> I'LL GET INTO A SECOND ABOUT
WHY THE THE PROJECTS ARE A
LITTLE BIT TOO BIG.
AND SPEAKING OF WHICH, THE SITE
PLAN AS VERY WELL DESCRIBED
PODIUM TWO BUILDINGS ON TOP IT
HAS OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET INCLUDES GROUND
FLOOR STUFF PLUS RESIDENTIAL
ABOVE.
I MEAN BACK UP MYSELF AGAIN.
ONE THING THAT IS NOT IN THE
STAFF REPORT IS A COMPARISON
OF THE PERMITTED USES IN THE R
FORESEE AND SEE WHEN OUR
DISTRICT SO QUICK AT A QUICK
AND HIGH LEVEL THE R 4C
DISTRICT ALLOWS FOR SINGLE
FAMILY TO FAMILY AND MULTIPHASE
FAMILY DWELLING UNITS THEY SEE
ONE IS OUR DISTRICT ALLOWS FOR
ALL THE KINDS OF HOUSEHOLD
LIVING THAT'S CATEGORY JUST FOR
LABELING PURPOSES AND THAT IS
THE SINGLE FAMILY TO FAMILY
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING CYGWIN
IS OUR DISTRICT ALSO ALLOWS ALL
FORMS OF GROUP LIVING WHICH IS
FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES,
STUDENT COOPERATIVES, SHELTERS
AND AND SO FORTH.
IT ALLOWS FOR SOME COMMUNITY
KIND OF USES LIKE MUSEUMS.
IT ALLOWS FOR CHILD CARE, ALL
KINDS OF LEVELS OF EDUCATION
SCHOOLS.
>> IT ALLOWS FOR NURSING
FACILITIES, HOTELS, SHORT TERM
RENTALS, RECREATION AND
ENTERTAINMENT USES RESTAURANTS
,GENERAL MERCHANDISE, LAUNDRY
SERVICES, PERSONAL SERVICES AND
VETERINARY SERVICES AND ALL
FORMS OF OFFICE.
THAT WOULD BE GENERAL OFFICE
FINANCIAL AND MEDICAL OFFICES.
>> IT DOES NOT PERMIT MANY
OF THE AUTO ORIENTED USES SUCH
AS AUTO REPAIR, AUTO SALES AND
A LOT OF ANY OF THE
MANUFACTURING OR RESEARCH USES
BECKE THE STAFF REPORT THE SITE
PLAN B PROJECT HAS A MEASURES
FROM EXTERIOR FACE TO EXTERIOR
BASE AROUND TWO HUNDRED AND
FORTY OR TWO HUNDRED FORTY SIX
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET WHICH
CALCULATES TO A FLOOR AREA
RATIO OF THREE HUNDRED AND
FORTY FIVE PERCENT.
THE C ONE IS OUR DISTRICT
ALLOWS 300 PERCENT BUT IT
DOESN'T ALLOW PEDESTRIAN AND
THE PEDESTRIAN AMENITY PREMIUM
WHICH GIVES THREE OR 800 SQUARE
FEET ON TOP OF WHAT YOU CAN
EARN BASED ON THE LOT SIZE IF
YOU DO THAT MATH THE EFFORT
WOULD BE THEN THREE HUNDRED AND
ELEVEN PERCENT THEY HAVE
REQUESTED
THE VARIANCE TO NOT
INCLUDE THE PARKING THE FLOOR
AREA USED FOR PARKING WHICH IS
WITHIN THE PODIUM.
>> IF YOU REMOVE THAT THEN THE
NUMBERS DROP AND THE FLOOR AREA
RATIO CALCULATES TO THREE
HUNDRED AND EIGHT PERCENT.
SOME DETAILS ABOUT THE SITE
PLAN THAT PROBABLY HAVE ALREADY
MENTIONED.
BUT THE SETBACKS FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE ARE AN AVERAGE
OF TEN FEET AS REQUIRED IN THE
C ONE IS OUR DISTRICT.
THEY HAVE BEEN FLEXED ON THE
STATE STREET SIDE BUT IF YOU
ADD UP ALL OF THE SEPIK AREA
AROUND THE SITE IT BALANCES
WITH THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
ALSO THE BUILDING HAS AND SET
BACK SO IT PROVIDES 19 FEET
FROM THE BACK OF THE CURB.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING WE
USUALLY MEASURE FROM BUT THIS
IS TAKEN FROM THE DOWNTOWN
STREET DESIGN MANUAL GUIDELINE
FOR DESTINATION STREETS AND 19
FEET IS THE WIDTH THAT WAS
DEEMED IDEAL AND THE DOWNTOWN
TO PROVIDE AN EIGHT FOOT EIGHT
FOOT WALKING ZONE PLUS AN EIGHT
FOOT AMENITY ZONE THAT CAN
INCLUDE STREET TREES.
>> IT CAN INCLUDE PARKING
METERS, STREET LIGHTS, SO FORTH
BICYCLE HOOPS AND IT ALSO
INCLUDES SOME SPACE FOR DOOR
SWING OR TABLE ESCAPE AREAS AND
SO FORTH.
AND THAT HAS BEEN PROVIDED FOR
THE THE SITE AS WELL SITE
PROVIDES PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES.
IT HAS A PEDESTRIAN PLAZA ON
ITS SOUTH SIDE.
IT'S GOT ACTIVE OPEN SPACE
WHEREAS NONE IS REQUIRED IN
THIS ONE IS OUR DISTRICT.
THE REDUCTION IN DRIVEWAYS HAS
BEEN MENTIONED AS WELL AS THE
LIMITED PARKING AND I HAVE
REPEATED IN THE STAFF REPORT
THE SOME OF THE INFORMATION
PROVIDED ON THE SITE PLAN
REGARDING SUSTAINABILITY AND
I'LL JUST MENTION AGAIN THAT
THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM FOCUSED ON
THREE MAJOR, MAJOR COMPONENTS
TO PRIORITIZE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY FOR THE BUILDING
MATERIALS, THE LACK OF GAS
EQUIPMENT AND THE
ELECTRIFICATION AND ITS
LOCATION PRIORITIZING
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION.
FINALLY THE PROJECT INCLUDES A
STREET VACATION.
INTERESTINGLY, THE THE NORTH
HALF OF THE SITE WAS PLANTED IN
1890.
THE SOUTH HALF WAS PLANTED.
I THINK JUST ABOUT TWENTY YEARS
LATER AND THERE IS AN
UNIMPROVED ALLEY.
IF YOU WERE DRIVING BY ON HENRY
YOU WOULD SEE THE GRAVEL
DRIVEWAY.
IT LOOKS LIKE A PRIVATE
IT'S IT'S ABOUT IN THE LOCATION
DRIVEWAY.
OF THE UNIMPROVED ALLEY.
IT'S IT'S ABOUT IN THE LOCATION
THERE ARE NO PUBLIC UTILITIES
OF THE UNIMPROVED ALLEY.
IN THIS ALLEY, JUST ELECTRICAL
THERE ARE NO PUBLIC UTILITIES
SERVICE.
IN THIS ALLEY, JUST ELECTRICAL
SO THERE IS IS NO IMPACT TO
SERVICE.
VACATING THIS ALLEY.
SO THERE IS IS NO IMPACT TO
>> STANDARDIZED PROCEDURES MEAN
VACATING THIS ALLEY.
THAT WHEN AN ALLEY IS VACATED
>> STANDARDIZED PROCEDURES MEAN
YOU PUT THE LINE STRAIGHT DOWN
THAT WHEN AN ALLEY IS VACATED
THE MIDDLE AND EACH HAVE THE
YOU PUT THE LINE STRAIGHT DOWN
LAND GOES TO ABUTTING
THE MIDDLE AND EACH HAVE THE
PROPERTIES ON EACH SIDE.
LAND GOES TO ABUTTING
ALL OF THESE PROPERTIES ARE
PROPERTIES ON EACH SIDE.
UNDER THE SINGLE OWNERSHIP SO
ALL OF THESE PROPERTIES ARE
THE OWNER WILL GET ALL OF THE
UNDER THE SINGLE OWNERSHIP SO
LAND THE PROJECT HAS BEEN
THE OWNER WILL GET ALL OF THE
REVIEWED BY A PLETHORA
LAND THE PROJECT HAS BEEN
OF SERVICES UNIT UNIT COMMENTS
REVIEWED BY A PLETHORA
AND I'VE INCLUDED A PLANNING
OF SERVICES UNIT UNIT COMMENTS
COMMENT IN THE STAFF REPORT BUT
AND I'VE INCLUDED A PLANNING
IT REPEATS NOTHING ELSE THAN
COMMENT IN THE STAFF REPORT BUT
WHAT HAD ALREADY BEEN MENTIONED
IT REPEATS NOTHING ELSE THAN
THAT THE DEVELOPMENT SHOULD
WHAT HAD ALREADY BEEN MENTIONED
PROVIDE AT LEAST 19 FEET
THAT THE DEVELOPMENT SHOULD
OF SETBACK FROM THE BACK OF THE
PROVIDE AT LEAST 19 FEET
BUILDING PHASE WHICH IT DOES
OF SETBACK FROM THE BACK OF THE
AND IT SHOULD MEET ALL OF THE
BUILDING PHASE WHICH IT DOES
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS OF THE
AND IT SHOULD MEET ALL OF THE
SEA.
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS OF THE
WHAT IS OUR DISTRICT WITHOUT
SEA.
VARIANCES WHICH IT CURRENTLY
WHAT IS OUR DISTRICT WITHOUT
DOES NOT ENGINEERING STAFF ARE
VARIANCES WHICH IT CURRENTLY
STILL WORKING ON THEIR REVIEW.
DOES NOT ENGINEERING STAFF ARE
I KNOW THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
STILL WORKING ON THEIR REVIEW.
DISCUSSIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
I KNOW THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
I THINK THAT THINGS ARE WELL ON
DISCUSSIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
THEIR WAY.
I THINK THAT THINGS ARE WELL ON
THE SAME WITH THE FIRE MARSHAL
THEIR WAY.
AND SOLID WASTE AND STORMWATER
THE SAME WITH THE FIRE MARSHAL
MANAGEMENT OUTSTANDING ISSUES.
AND SOLID WASTE AND STORMWATER
THE STAFF REPORT NOTES THAT
MANAGEMENT OUTSTANDING ISSUES.
PART CONTRIBUTION PER DWELLING
THE STAFF REPORT NOTES THAT
UNIT WILL BE MADE AND WE ARE
PART CONTRIBUTION PER DWELLING
STILL WORKING WITH OUR
UNIT WILL BE MADE AND WE ARE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS ON THE
STILL WORKING WITH OUR
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS ON THE
.
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
>> I THINK THAT WE WILL I THINK
.
THAT WE WILL GET THERE.
>> I THINK THAT WE WILL I THINK
>> BUT CURRENTLY THE
THAT WE WILL GET THERE.
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
>> BUT CURRENTLY THE
NEEDS TO BE REVISED AND
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
ADDRESSED MORE OF THE MULTIMODE
NEEDS TO BE REVISED AND
ASPECTS AND BE MORE ROBUST IN
ADDRESSED MORE OF THE MULTIMODE
RECOMMENDING THE PHRASE I
ASPECTS AND BE MORE ROBUST IN
BELIEVE IS CHANGES IN
RECOMMENDING THE PHRASE I
OPERATIONS NOT TO SAY THIS
BELIEVE IS CHANGES IN
WOULD BE DONE BUT WHAT CHANGES
OPERATIONS NOT TO SAY THIS
IN OPERATIONS MEAN IS SWITCHING
WOULD BE DONE BUT WHAT CHANGES
FROM ONE WAY TO TO OR FROM TWO
IN OPERATIONS MEAN IS SWITCHING
WEIGHT IN ONE WAY ADDING TURN
FROM ONE WAY TO TO OR FROM TWO
LANES, TAKING AWAY TURN LANES
WEIGHT IN ONE WAY ADDING TURN
THAT ARE ADDING ON-STREET
LANES, TAKING AWAY TURN LANES
PARKING, TAKING AWAY ANSARY
THAT ARE ADDING ON-STREET
PARKING NO LEFT TURNS AND RIGHT
PARKING, TAKING AWAY ANSARY
TURNS.
PARKING NO LEFT TURNS AND RIGHT
>> THOSE ARE EXAMPLES
TURNS.
OF CHANGES IN OPERATIONS I
>> THOSE ARE EXAMPLES
BELIEVE I MENTIONED THAT THE
OF CHANGES IN OPERATIONS I
PROJECT HAS BEEN SCHEDULED FOR
BELIEVE I MENTIONED THAT THE
A VARIANCE TO BE HEARD AT THE
PROJECT HAS BEEN SCHEDULED FOR
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
A VARIANCE TO BE HEARD AT THE
NEXT WEEK WEDNESDAY WHICH IS
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
MAY 24TH BECAUSE OF THE
NEXT WEEK WEDNESDAY WHICH IS
OUTSTANDING STAFF ISSUES AND
MAY 24TH BECAUSE OF THE
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PROJECT
OUTSTANDING STAFF ISSUES AND
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING THAT THE
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PROJECT
PROJECT BE POSTPONED.
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING THAT THE
>> THANK YOU.
PROJECT BE POSTPONED.
THANK YOU ALREADY WE WILL MOVE
>> THANK YOU.
ON TO THE PUBLIC HEARING NOW
THANK YOU ALREADY WE WILL MOVE
FOR THAT PROJECT.
ON TO THE PUBLIC HEARING NOW
FOLKS IN THE ROOM CAN HAVE
FOR THAT PROJECT.
THREE MINUTES OR REMOTELY IF
FOLKS IN THE ROOM CAN HAVE
YOU'RE SPEAKING REMOTELY.
THREE MINUTES OR REMOTELY IF
PRESS STAR NINE ARE USED TO
YOU'RE SPEAKING REMOTELY.
RAISE A HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
PRESS STAR NINE ARE USED TO
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
RAISE A HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN AN INTERMEETING ID NINE
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
SEVEN AN INTERMEETING ID NINE
ONE TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
PRESS STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL
ONE TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED
START CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
PRESS STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL
THEIR HAND OR USE THE LAST
START CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
THEIR HAND OR USE THE LAST
NUMBER.
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED AND
NUMBER.
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED AND
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE YOUR
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE YOUR
BEGINNING.
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
IS THERE ANYBODY HERE THAT
BEGINNING.
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON THIS
IS THERE ANYBODY HERE THAT
PROJECT?
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON THIS
>> HELLO MY NAME IS MICHAEL
PROJECT?
LEWANDOWSKY.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS MICHAEL
I AM A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
LEWANDOWSKY.
OWNERS OF FIFTEEN THIRTEEN
I AM A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
STATE STREET WHICH IS JUST
OWNERS OF FIFTEEN THIRTEEN
KITTY CORNER ACROSS THE STREET
STATE STREET WHICH IS JUST
FROM THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
KITTY CORNER ACROSS THE STREET
WE HAVE SOME SLIGHT CONCERNS
FROM THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
MAYBE MORE THAN SLIGHT ABOUT
WE HAVE SOME SLIGHT CONCERNS
PARKING SPECIFICALLY WE DO
MAYBE MORE THAN SLIGHT ABOUT
APPLAUD THE PROJECT'S
PARKING SPECIFICALLY WE DO
COMMITMENT TO TRY TO REDUCE CAR
APPLAUD THE PROJECT'S
TRAFFIC IN THE AREA AND HAVE
COMMITMENT TO TRY TO REDUCE CAR
MULTI MODAL TRANSPORTATION AS A
TRAFFIC IN THE AREA AND HAVE
FOCUS OF THE PROJECT.
MULTI MODAL TRANSPORTATION AS A
HOWEVER, WE ALSO LIVE IN THE
FOCUS OF THE PROJECT.
REALITY OF RESIDENTS
HOWEVER, WE ALSO LIVE IN THE
POTENTIALLY NOT ALWAYS LIVING
REALITY OF RESIDENTS
UP TO THE SAME STANDARDS THAT
POTENTIALLY NOT ALWAYS LIVING
THE PROJECT HAS INDICATED AND
UP TO THE SAME STANDARDS THAT
THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS
THE PROJECT HAS INDICATED AND
ALREADY RELATIVELY CLOGGED AT
THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS
CERTAIN POINTS WITH PARKING
ALREADY RELATIVELY CLOGGED AT
WOULD SIMPLY BECOME OVERWHELMED
CERTAIN POINTS WITH PARKING
WITH PARKING AS RESIDENTS USE
WOULD SIMPLY BECOME OVERWHELMED
THE PUBLIC PARKING IN THE
WITH PARKING AS RESIDENTS USE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS OPPOSED TO THE
THE PUBLIC PARKING IN THE
DESIGNATED PARKING THAT THEY
NEIGHBORHOOD AS OPPOSED TO THE
WOULD BE ABLE TO GET THROUGH
DESIGNATED PARKING THAT THEY
THE PROJECT.
WOULD BE ABLE TO GET THROUGH
THIS WOULD BE ESPECIALLY
THE PROJECT.
CONCERNING GIVEN SOME OF THE
THIS WOULD BE ESPECIALLY
USE AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS
CONCERNING GIVEN SOME OF THE
THE PROJECT MANAGER INDICATED,
USE AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS
IT'S VERY CLOSE TO THE ATHLETIC
THE PROJECT MANAGER INDICATED,
FACILITIES AROUND THE
IT'S VERY CLOSE TO THE ATHLETIC
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS
FACILITIES AROUND THE
AND OF COURSE EVERYONE WHO
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS
LIVES IN ANN ARBOR KNOWS THAT
AND OF COURSE EVERYONE WHO
ON FOOTBALL SATURDAY PARKING
LIVES IN ANN ARBOR KNOWS THAT
AROUND THAT AREA BECOMES PRETTY
ON FOOTBALL SATURDAY PARKING
CRAZY AND SO IT WOULD BE
AROUND THAT AREA BECOMES PRETTY
CONCERNED ABOUT BEING ABLE TO
CRAZY AND SO IT WOULD BE
UTILIZE THAT SPACE AS WELL FOR
CONCERNED ABOUT BEING ABLE TO
THOSE KIND OF ACTIVITIES NOT
UTILIZE THAT SPACE AS WELL FOR
JUST FOR FOOTBALL BUT AGAIN
THOSE KIND OF ACTIVITIES NOT
IT'S NEAR ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC
JUST FOR FOOTBALL BUT AGAIN
FACILITIES.
IT'S NEAR ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC
SO IF THE PARKING IN THE
FACILITIES.
NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD BE
SO IF THE PARKING IN THE
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED BASED ON
NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD BE
THE RESIDENTS IN THE BUILDING,
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED BASED ON
WE JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THE RESIDENTS IN THE BUILDING,
THAT THE PROJECT IS AT LEAST
WE JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
AWARE OF THAT AND THAT THE
THAT THE PROJECT IS AT LEAST
COMMISSION WOULD BE AWARE
AWARE OF THAT AND THAT THE
OF THE POTENTIAL ISSUES GIVEN
COMMISSION WOULD BE AWARE
THAT THIS IS BEING YOU PLOPPED
OF THE POTENTIAL ISSUES GIVEN
DOWN RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF A
THAT THIS IS BEING YOU PLOPPED
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE EVERYBODY
DOWN RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF A
ALREADY LIVES THAT YOU KNOW,
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE EVERYBODY
THEY STILL WANT TO BE ABLE TO
ALREADY LIVES THAT YOU KNOW,
PARK POTENTIALLY ON THE STREET
THEY STILL WANT TO BE ABLE TO
OR HAVE FRIENDS OR SOMETHING
PARK POTENTIALLY ON THE STREET
PARK ON THE STREET AND THEY
OR HAVE FRIENDS OR SOMETHING
WOULD POTENTIALLY BE AN ISSUE
PARK ON THE STREET AND THEY
OTHERWISE.
WOULD POTENTIALLY BE AN ISSUE
>> THAT'S MY MAIN CONCERN.
OTHERWISE.
THANK YOU.
>> THAT'S MY MAIN CONCERN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE I'D LIKE TO SPEAK
>> THANK YOU.
ON THIS PROJECT
.
HELLO, ADAM GOODMAN 400
VIRGINIA AVENUE.
I'M HERE TONIGHT BECAUSE I'M
REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
I THINK THAT IT IS ALMOST
EVERYTHING THAT OUR CITY HAS
BEEN ASKING FOR FROM DEVELOPERS
AND IT'S YOU KNOW, SOME OF YOU
HAVE DESCRIBED IT AS WELL VERY
DIFFICULT MAYBE WITH MORE
COLORFUL LANGUAGE THAN THAT TO
GET DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE FOR
EXAMPLE, ELECTRIC AND HERE WE
HAVE ONE NOT ONLY IS IT ALL
ELECTRIC, IT'S IT'S PUSHING
BOUNDARIES.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS WOULD BE
THE FIRST MASS TIMBER
DEVELOPMENT AND IN THE HISTORY
OF ANN ARBOR, WHICH IS WHICH IS
REALLY COOL.
I THINK THAT'S THAT'S
FANTASTIC.
I OF COURSE ALSO VERY MUCH
APPRECIATE THE COMMITMENT TO
MULTI-MODAL TRANSPORTATION HERE
AND PROVIDING VERY LIMITED
AMOUNT OF PARKING.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
CITY COUNCIL RECENTLY CHOSE
VERY DELIBERATELY TO REMOVE
PARKING MINIMUMS FROM OUR
ZONING CODE CITYWIDE AND I
THINK THAT WAS A CORRECT CHOICE
AND YOU KNOW, THE PUBLIC
STREETS ARE A PUBLIC PROPERTY.
THEY DON'T THEY DON'T BELONG TO
ANY ONE OF US.
SO I YOU KNOW, I THINK IT MAY
BE VALUABLE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THERE WILL BE AN IMPACT BUT I
THINK IT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
GOALS THAT THE THAT YOU AND
CITY COUNCIL HAVE HAVE PUT IN
PLACE FOR DEVELOPMENT.
SO YOU KNOW, WITH ALL OF THESE
THINGS WITH ALL OF THESE GREAT
BENEFITS, I WOULD THINK THAT,
YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD BE THE CITY
SHOULD BE BENDING OVER
BACKWARDS TO MAKE SURE THAT
THIS GETS APPROVED AS
EFFICIENTLY AND EXPEDIENTLY AS
POSSIBLE AND UNFORTUNATELY IT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THAT'S QUITE
WHAT'S HAPPENING.
IT SEEMS LIKE THIS PROJECT IS
GETTING RUN THROUGH THE RINGER
THAT IS TYPICAL VAN ARBER AND
MAKES US SOMEWHAT INFAMOUS
AMONG LOCAL AND REGIONAL
DEVELOPERS.
MAYBE THAT'S A BROADER PROBLEM
THAT WE CAN'T SOLVE FOR A
PARTICULAR PROJECT JUST BECAUSE
WE LIKE IT BUT IT'S STILL A
LITTLE DISCOURAGING AND ALSO I
HAVE TO SAY I DON'T
PARTICULARLY UNDERSTAND THE
STAFF RECOMMENDATION ABOUT NO
VARIANCES
.
IT SEEMS WEIRD TO ME.
ARE WE SAYING THAT YOU WANT TO
PREEMPT OR OVERRIDE THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS ON THIS AND
YOU ALSO BRING THIS UP BECAUSE
IT SEEMS TO ME IT SEEMS CLEAR
TO ME FROM THE PRESENTATION
FROM THE DEVELOPERS THAT IF
THIS VARIANCE ARE DENIED THE
PROJECT COULD STILL MOVE
FORWARD BUT IT WOULD BE WORSE
AND NOT JUST WORSE FOR THE
DEVELOPERS AND THE FUTURE
RESIDENTS BUT WORSE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE COMMUNITY
AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO TARGET RANDALL
KENT GARBER AGAIN AS MR.
GOODMAN SAID, THIS PROJECT
CHECKS APPEARS TO CHECK ALL THE
DECARBONIZATION BOXES YOU CAN
IMAGINE BUT IT'S A HUGE
REZONING REQUEST FROM OUR
POLICY TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE WE
HERE MR. LEO TALK ABOUT THREE
TIMES ARE THEY'RE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE ON TOP THAT THEY'RE
REPLACING PERFECTLY GOOD WELL
REASONABLE REASONABLY HABITABLE
ANYWAY EXISTING HOUSING.
SO THE BAR'S REALLY HERE.
THIS HAS TO BE A MODEL PROJECT
AND MAYBE IT IS BUT WE DON'T
SEE A PROJECT LIKE THIS VERY
OFTEN.
SO TO ME IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO
LEARN AS WELL AS TO ASK
QUESTIONS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S GOING
PROBABLY BE A POSTPONEMENT SO
I'M NOT ASKING FOR ALL MY
QUESTIONS TO BE ANSWERED
TONIGHT BUT I PUT THEM TOGETHER
IN THE FORM OF A POP QUIZ AND
LIKE ANY POP QUIZ THERE'S SOME
GIMMIES ON HERE BUT MAYBE
THERE'S SOME TOUGHIES TOO.
I HOPE FIRST OF ALL THAT
ELECTRIC HEATING SOURCES WILL
BE UNITS WITH ELECTRIC V-TECH
UNITS ON THE ROOF.
THE TECH CENTER FOR THE
COAL TERMINAL AIR-CONDITIONER
ONE PER UNIT.
>> THESE ARE LESS EFFICIENT
THAN DAHLQUIST.
WHY WIDELY VERTEX COULD YOU
ELIMINATE THEM AND GET MORE
SOLAR CAPACITY ON THE ROOF?
NUMBER TWO, WHAT IF THE IRS
EMPLOYEE OR SOURCE
OF GEOTHERMAL I TRIED CHATTING
WITH THEM EARLIER SOUNDS LIKE
THEY'RE 80 SO SURE IT'LL BE
GEOTHERMAL BUT NOT A HUNDRED
PERCENT SURE.
SO WHAT'S YOUR BACKUP PLAN IF
IT DOESN'T WORK?
IF THE SOIL SAMPLES PROVE
INHOSPITABLE TO THIS SORT
OF SOLUTION AND IF YOU DO
GEOTHERMAL, ARE YOU ARE YOU
CONCERNED ABOUT THE ISSUE
OF THERMAL DEGRADATION WHICH
YOU'VE HEARD FROM SOME
RELUCTANT DEVELOPERS IN THE
PAST THREE THE 110 CM WANTS A
ROOFTOP SOLAR WHICH I READ
ISN'T VERY MUCH ABOUT ENOUGH
FOR 14 HOUSES.
I KNOW YOU'RE PUTTING IN TO
GREEN ROOFS WHICH MAKES SENSE
BUT HOW DO YOU EXPECT TO POWER
THE BUILDING DURING AN EXTENDED
OUTAGE WITH THE DIESEL
GENERATOR FOR IS THAT DIESEL
GENERATOR ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY?
HOW WILL THE DIESEL FUEL BE
STORED AND COULD HAVE BATTERY
POWER WILL BE USED TO SATISFY
THE FIRE PROTECTION CODE AND TO
DEAL WITH OUTAGES FIVE WILL
THERE BE A GAS CONNECTION TO
THIS BUILDING?
>> PRETTY SURE THERE'S NOT BUT
I JUST WANT TO MAKE ABSOLUTELY
SURE SIX WE YOU HAVE AN AREA
ENERGY RECOVERY VENTILATION
SYSTEM AND OR HEAT
RECOVERY CHILLERS SEVEN THE
BUILDING AND WILL COMPLY WITH
THE TWENTY TWENTY ONE I.C.C.
FOR MULTIFAMILY INCLUDING AN
EXTERNAL INSTALLATION.
SO YOU MENTIONED SOMETHING
ABOUT PATIENT HOUSING.
I LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT
EIGHT HAVE YOU MODELED YOUR
BUILDING ENERGY USE INTENSITY
C0 CODEPENDENTS THAT'S A
MAXIMUM FOR OUR CLIMATE ZONE A
FORTY SEVEN KILOBITS PER SQUARE
FOOT PER YEAR FOR MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL.
HOW DO YOU GET UP NINE HAVE YOU
SCORED ZERO ENERGY AND MASS
TIMBER CONSTRUCTION.
>> WELL IT'S STILL UNCLEAR HOW
MUCH CONCRETE STEEL WILL YOU
STILL BE USING.
>> I HAD ABOUT THIS QUESTION
BUT I GOT
THANK YOU I DON'T
KNOW IF WE GOT ALL THOSE DOWN
OR YOU ALL GOT ALL THOSE DID
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE VIRTUAL
LIST AND THIS IS WHERE THE
FOLKS WHO ARE TUNING IN WON'T
BE ABLE TO HEAR THESE THE
PEOPLE IN THE ROOM WILL BE ABLE
TO HEAR THEM.
THAT'S CORRECT.
LAUREN, YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> HI.
THANK YOU FOR COMING IN.
I'M LAUREN.
I'M GLAD THAT YOU DON'T ONE
ROSE JUST RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET.
I'M WOULD HAVE BEEN FOLKS HAVE
ALREADY SURFACED JUST BRIEFLY
CERTAINLY IN THIS AREA WHO IS
KNOWN TO BE A HIGH TRAFFIC AREA
.
SO IN TERMS OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE ACCOMMODATION
AND I DO LIKE WHAT I'M HEARING
AROUND SUPPORTING THE 15 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT I DO HAVE SOME
QUESTIONS IN TERMS OF REALLY
ADDRESSING THE INFRASTRUCTURE
NEEDS NOT JUST OF THIS
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD AT THESE
ADDRESSES BUT ALSO THAT
EXTENDING WITH THE PROJECTED
GROWTH OF THE CURRENT PROPOSAL
AND THESE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
LIKE AROUND GROCERY STORE
CYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE NOISE
ORDINANCE IN TERMS
OF ACCOMMODATING THE TRAIN THAT
REGULARLY HONKS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEN ALSO THE
GROWING INFRASTRUCTURE AROUND
TOMESCU COMES WITH IT TO GO
FROM BEING MOBILITY.
AND SO I'M JUST WONDERING AND
LIKE THE SIMILAR SPEAKER WAS
BRINGING UP QUESTIONS I DON'T
IMMEDIATELY EXPECT THEM TO BE
RESOLVED.
BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD HOW SOME
OF THESE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
WILL BE ADDRESSED AGAIN THROUGH
THE EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD AND
THEN TO ACCOMMODATE THIS
PROJECTED GROWTH OF THE
DEVELOPMENT, I HAD TO COME BACK
TO THE GROCERY STORE IN
PARTICULAR BECAUSE FOR AND A
BIG FIGURE IN THIS PROPOSED
PROJECT THEY THEMSELVES HAVE A
LOVELY VENUE THAT'S BEEN OUT
SINCE OCTOBER A GREAT NEW SPACE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
HOWEVER, IT DID TAKE AWAY A
VERY SIGNIFICANT NEED FOR
GROCERY STORES AND MORE.
I DO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS A
MIXED USE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
WITH THE POTENTIAL FOR RETAIL
ON THE GROUND FLOOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME
GREATER INTEREST IN
ACKNOWLEDGING THE GROCERY NEEDS
TO GET THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
ALSO TO MEET THE PROJECTED
GROWTH.
I HAVE A HARD TIME LEAVING
SIMILAR TO DISCUSSIONS AROUND
FIVE CORNERS PROPOSAL FURTHER
NORTH AND SOUTH STATE STREET
THAT THE FEW PLACES MENTIONED
WERE REALLY COMEDY GROCERY
NEEDS FOR THE TARGETED MARKET.
IT SOUNDS LIKE US STUDENTS AND
YOUNG PROFESSIONALS TV STATION
IS A LOVELY PLACE FOR SPECIALTY
FOODS BUT NOT A ONE STOP SHOP
FOR ALL WHERE SHE NEEDS ON THE
CYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE SIDE I
100 PERCENT SUPPORT FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE NEEDS TO BE FURTHER
INVESTMENTS IN THE CYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE TO ACCOMMODATE
EVERYDAY TRAFFIC ALONG WITH THE
SPORTING EVENTS THAT OCCURRED
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD OVERALL I
SUPPORT THIS PROJECT AND I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE FURTHER
IMPROVEMENTS TO ELABORATE ON IT
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY ELSE IN
LINE AT YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HELLO MY NAME IS SAYING THAT I
AM VERY MUCH IN SUPPORT
OF SOUTHTOWN.
>> I LOVE LISTENING AND DEALING
WITH THE ROLL CALL ABOUT HOW
HARD IT IS MORE MID RISE
BUILDINGS AND I WROTE ABOUT HOW
WE NEED THEM IN PLACES THAT
AREN'T DOWNTOWN AND THIS
LITERALLY ALMOST EXACTLY WHAT I
WAS SAYING WE NEED I MEAN THIS
IS GOING THIS IS GOING TO ADD
MORE HOURS INTO THE AREA.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A VERY
SPECIAL THING FOR ME, A VERY
INNOVATIVE BUILDING FIRST AND
SECOND TO MICHIGAN, THE
BUILDING AND HARDWARE FRESHMAN
AND SO THE MICHIGAN COULDN'T BE
A MORE HOME LIKE SMASH HIT HOME
RUN CITIGROUP'S IN THIS IN THIS
WHOLE ENTIRE PLAN I THINK THE
VERY OF GROUP THE ONE THAT SAYS
SOMETHING ABOUT SETBACKS 19
FEET I REPEAT IT'S LIKE ACROSS
THE STREET, YOU KNOW YOU KNOW
IS LIKE TALLER AND CLOSER TO
THE STREET.
THIS BUILDING IS SO I THINK
THERE'S ALMOST NOTHING WRONG
WITH THESE BUILDING PLACE ON
HOW PARKING WHICH MAKES IT
TALLER LIKE THIS IS JUST LIKE A
VERY MUCH BUILDING HAS A LOT
OF THINGS RIGHT.
IT'S VERY LONG.
I MEAN IN ANY GREAT FUTURE
RENDERINGS ONE NOT I REALLY
DON'T SEE THIS BUILDING BUILT
BY THE DOWN THE STREET.
I BELIEVE THAT WELL LIKE IT'S I
DON'T SEE ANY RESISTANCE
AGAINST THIS BUILDING.
IT'S A MASTER PLAN.
IT'S DOWNTOWN POSTED ON THE
SAME SIDE OF IT.
IT'S CLOSED THE USES THAT ARE
SIMILAR.
THERE'S ALWAYS A REASON THAT
THE DEVELOPERS READ ALL OF THIS
THE MASTER PLAN TO PROTECT ROOF
ALL THE DIFFERENT REQUESTS THE
DEVELOPERS ASKED FOR.
YEAH, THERE'S JUST A LOT
OF LIKE HERE DISLIKE AND I
REALLY DON'T SEE THIS GOING TO
HELP IS WITH THE PUBLIC SPACES
AND ALL THE STUFF THAT THEY'RE
ASKING FOR.
VARIANCE IS FOR YEAH PLEASE
APPROVE THIS.
THANK YOU
CHRIS.
THAT'S CHRIS.
MY APOLOGIES SUGGEST THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
NO PROBLEM WITH VASQUEZ FROM
OUR OVER TOWN.
JUST WANTED TO SPEAK VERY
BRIEFLY IN FAVOR OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL THAT YOU
SEE BEFORE YOU
OBVIOUSLY THE
DEVELOPER AND CITY STAFF AND
OTHERS HAVE PUT IN A LOT
OF THOUGHT INTO THIS PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT MOVE
FORWARD EXPEDITIOUSLY WITH
PERHAPS SOME OF THE MINOR
TWEAKS AND AND VARIANCES ETC.
THIS LOOKS LIKE A GREAT PROJECT
OVERALL.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS FORMER THREE STAR SIX
TIME YOUR PHONE AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THIS IS I CAN HEAR THREE DAYS
IN.
>> SOUNDS LIKE WE'RE GETTING
SOME FEEDBACK
.
OH, BETTER BECAUSE I'M ON MY
PHONE.
I'M NOT ON MY COMPUTER.
THANK YEAH I WAS I IF I KNEW
THAT I DON'T THINK YOU CAN HEAR
ME THAT PERSON YOU SOUND FROM I
MEETING HOW CAN THAT BE THE ON
YOUR COMPUTER OR THE TELEVISION
YOU COULD MAKE THE MEETING
WATCHING OK TOGETHER.
THANK YOU.
YES OH YES.
THEY'RE SO FOCUSED THIRTEEN
POINT THREE TENS OF THOUSANDS
BECAUSE I THINK DO A LOT ONLY
ON PART OF IT HAS BEEN FOR THE
LAST FIVE PARTICULAR
CONSERVATIVE PARTY I I WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT PARTY SECURITY
WITH BILL AND THE HOUSING AND
AND HAVING WALKABLE AREAS.
BUT WHEN THE HOUSE WAS BUILT ON
THIRTY THREE THERE WAS SUPPOSED
TO BE SPACES IN THE GARAGE AND
THEY WOULD NEVER USE I WAS VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT CURTAINS FOR MY
A HOMEOWNER THEY HAD RENTERS
AND WHEN PART OF MY UNIT IS
VERY PART OF THE STREET I GET
MY I GUESS THE NEIGHBORS FOR
VOTERS TO ASK FOR THESE PERMITS
FOR THAT STREET I OUR REQUEST
WAS BASICALLY DENIED OR THAT IT
WAS WARRANTED BUT AS SOON AS
THE BUILDING WAS EIGHT 30 THERE
WERE NO PARKING SPACES THAT
WERE TAKEN WAY FOR BUSSES TO
PICK UP.
SO I KNOW I I'M REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PARKING
TICKETS.
WE HAVEN'T BEEN THAT A FEW
YEARS AGO I WAS IN HERE FOR
TWENTY YEARS.
LANDLORDS FOR THIS PARTICULAR
STREET IT'S ALREADY A ONE
STREET AND I HEARD THE WOMAN
MENTION THAT THE POSSIBILITY
OF TRANSPORTATION HAVING TO
WHICH REALLY CONCERNS SO MY
THINKING IS REALLY THAT TO DO
WITH PARTY AND WITH ALL OF THIS
GOING ON ARE WE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE A PARTY IN THE MID
WITH CERTAIN HOURS APART JUST
LIKE WE HAD ON ALL OTHER THINGS
THAT ARE THE DECISION WAS
DENIED AND I GOT THE RIGHT THE
NO.
>> OH YES.
OK, I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
PARTY IN ALSO THE PARTY'S
GETTING A PARTY PERMIT FOR THE
PARTY THE FREEDOM TO INSTITUTE
AND THE STADIUM IN THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE Q YES.
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PUBLIC OPTION QUESTION ON THE
SCREEN OF JOB 49 BURKE STREET
IN WEST VIRGINIA THE WORTH LESS
THAN HALF A MILE FROM THE
PROPOSED SITE TODAY TO SEE A
SIMILAR PROJECT PROPOSED IN ANN
ARBOR AND I HOPE YOU APPROVE
THE PROJECT TONIGHT WITHOUT
DOING IT.
I APPEAL TO THE PETITIONERS AND
OTHER CAST ASIDE.
THEY DO WANT TO BE THE EXPERT
THAT THEY ARE TRUSTED BY THIS
PROJECT IS USED PURELY FOR
PUTTING A ROOF OVER OUR PARKING
TO PROVIDE A PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE PLAZA THAT'S ABOUT
THE LIBRARY ON THE SURFACE
PARKING LOT.
IT WOULD BE A TRAGEDY IN MY
OPINION TO SIGNAL TO THE CTA
THAT THEY SHOULD DENY THAT VERY
SIMPLY MAKE THE TRAGEDY WORSE
BY HAVING EXPOSED CARS INSTEAD
OF A PUBLICLY VISIBLE AREA.
WHY SHOULD WE PREFER A SURFACE
PARKING LOT?
SO PLEASE DO THIS AND PLEASE
ENCOURAGE THE VERY AFTERWARDS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION.
HI THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN FROM
SASE.
YOU STAND UP FIRST I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT IS WELL I'M NOT A
FAN OF REALLY JUST KIND
OF FEELS LIKE IT SHOULD BE A
BIG WAS THE REQUESTED CYCAD SEE
WHEN I WAS AT THAT SO ANY KIND
OF LIMIT IT THIS THIS SIDE
SHOULD BE WAY BIGGER AND BIGGER
THAT THERE SHOULD BE AT LEAST
THREE MORE FOUR.
SO I THINK THAT IT'S A LITTLE
BIT FOR WITHIN THAT WE SHOULD
THAT WE SHOULD HAVE MORE HERE.
BUT YOU KNOW WE'VE GOT TO WORK
WITH WHAT WE HAVE WE HAVE WE
HAVE DUOP GIVEN ALL OF THIS
TALK ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE
DEVELOPER HAS PLANS FOR
ANYTHING THAT GOES UNUSED IN
THERE IN THEIR PARKING
STRUCTURE THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE GOOD AT VENTUREBEAT
LIVING IN THIS AREA MAY NOT
HAVE THAT CAR AT ALL.
AND SO IF PEOPLE WOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT GAME DAY AND
EVERYTHING, THIS WOULD BE A
PERFECT OPPORTUNITY FOR THAT
FOR THAT AS WELL.
I HAVE ONE STREET IN THE
PARKING PROBLEM.
IT IS SO BAD IN THIS AREA IT
SOUNDS LIKE WHAT WE ARE WHAT WE
NEED IS FOR THE CITY TO START
PUTTING IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT THAT'S TO RESOLVE THE
ISSUE OF POSING FOR A PICTURE
THE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE COMING
TO THE GAME THIS IS ABOUT
HOMEOWNERS ETC. EVERYONE WILL
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A
MAJOR PARTY EVEN IF WE NEED TO
GET IT ON THE MEDIA FOR SAYING
LARGE EVENT IS SO POWERFUL,
POWERFUL.
OTHER THAN THAT, I THINK THAT
THIS DEVELOPMENT IS TO GOOD AND
SAID THAT IT CONTRIBUTED AND
THAT YOU TAKE WHAT YOU CAN GET
DRESSED.
THANK YOU BECAUSE NO OTHER
SPEAKERS ARE WRITING.
>> I WILL READ THE THREE
MOTIONS.
THE FIRST ONE IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THIS
AFTERNOON REZONING SOUTHTOWN
REZONING PETITION TO SEE ONE
ACRE CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AND ACCEPT
THE CONDITIONS AT THE MAXIMUM
BUILDING HEIGHT IS LIMITED TO
ONE HUNDRED FEET.
THE MAXIMUM VEHICLE PARKING
LIMIT IS ONE SPACE BEFORE
DWELLING UNITS IN THE MINIMUM
ACTIVE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT
IS FIFTY SQUARE FEET PER
DWELLING UNIT SUBJECT TO
EXECUTING A CONDITIONAL ZONING
STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS.
THE SECOND ONE IS OUT OF THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED THE S
TOWNSITE PLAN IN OWNSELF STATE
STREET AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT SUBJECT TO VARIANCE
GRANTED BY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS TO ACCEDE TO TO THE
MAXIMUM FAAT PURSUANT TO OUR
DISTRICT DUES ENCLOSED PARKING
GARAGE AND COMBINING ALL
LOTTE'S PRIOR TO ISSUANCE
OF ANY PERMITS AND THE LAST ONE
IS NO CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL VACATE
THE UNIMPROVED PLIGHTED ALLEY
AND BLOCK THREE OF THE HAMILTON
ROAD AND SHEEHAN'S ADDITION TO
THE CITY AND TOWN OF ANN ARBOR
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER LEE
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHITECHURCH ALL
RIGHT, FIRST OF ALL, THANKS FOR
BRINGING THIS PROJECT AND
DEVELOPING IT FOR OUR COMMUNITY
.
WE HAVE A LOT OF QUESTIONS I
WILL START BY FIRST THANKING
YOU FOR INCLUDING THE POST AND
RAIN HIT FOR THE BICYCLE.
YES, THAT IS SOMETHING I ASK
EVERY DEVELOPER TO DO.
>> AND WHEN I LOOKED AT YOUR
PLAN I WAS LIKE, WELL, IT'S
ALREADY HERE
.
THAT'S A GOOD SONG.
I WANTED TO ADDRESS ONE OF THE
CALLER'S COMMENTS ABOUT LUCKY'S
MARKET THAT WAS AN EVENT A
JOINT INVESTMENT OUT
OF COLORADO WITH KROGER AND
KROGER WITHDREW THEIR FUNDING
WHICH REQUIRED THEM TO CLOSE
IMMEDIATELY.
THEY CLOSED THIRTY NINE STORES
IN TEN STATES SO I DON'T KNOW
WHY THAT CAME INTO THIS PART
OF THE THE CONVERSATION BUT I
JUST WANT TO CLEAR THAT UP.
>> I THINK WEEK SORRY.
SO LET ME START WITH THIS ONE.
WHY DID YOU REQUEST SEE ONE
HOUR INSTEAD OF A PUDI SO
PARTIALLY BECAUSE OF THE WE
STARTED THIS BUILDING OFF THE
BUILDING TYPE AND I WANT TO
ADDRESS ALSO WHY IT'S THAT AND
THIS IS WHERE I SEE WHEN I
WORKS WITH IT WE'RE PROPOSING
USING A A NEWER VERSION OF THE
MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE AND THIS
VERSION LIMITS THE HEIGHT
OF THIS CONSTRUCTION TO EIGHTY
FIVE AND SO C WHEN THEY ARE MET
THE FAILURE OF WHAT EIGHTY FIVE
FEET WOULD DO ON THIS SITE AND
A LOT OF THE THE GOALS OF THE
PROJECT WE FELT IT WAS THE
RIGHT SCALE FOR THE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE ALSO USE
THE SETBACKS THAT WERE ON THE
CHART AND WHAT WE ENDED UP WITH
THAT MAKES IT I A PROPER USE
AND EVERYTHING WE WANTED TO DO
WOULD FIT IT CAME TO THE
VARIANCE OF OF THE PARKING
WHICH WE CAN TALK LATER BUT
THAT'S OUR ONLY ONLY VARIANCE
ON TOP OF THAT.
OK, SO THEN WITH THE PARKING
CAN YOU BRING BACK UP YOUR
SLIDES WHERE YOU SHOWED THE
OPTIONS FOR THE VARIANCE TO US
HAVE CONTROL.
YEAH IT'S A FEW SLIDES BACK
RIGHT OK SO THEN IF THE
VARIANCES AT THE ZIBA IS DENIED
WHICH HOW HOW ARE YOU PLANNING
TO ADDRESS THAT OR IS THIS IF
IT'S DENIED OR HOW WE ADDRESS
THE VARIANCE YOU CAN DO BOTH.
>> I MEAN AS YOU SEE HERE WE
LAID OUT OUR FIVE WHAT WE WE
LOOKED AT AS OPTIONS WHAT WOULD
BE BUY RIGHT AND THE FOUR DOWN
BELOW WE ALWAYS MISS SOMETHING
IN THE PROJECT IF IT'S DENIED
IT'S I THINK IT'S A FAILURE.
WE WOULDN'T HAVE THE ABILITY TO
HAVE AS MUCH OF A PARK ON TOP
OF THAT AREA AS WHAT WOULD BE
MORE BENEFICIAL TO THE PROJECT.
SO I THINK WITH THE TECHNICAL
FEASIBILITY OF BUILDING A WATER
DETENTION INTO THE WATER TABLE
WE HAVE A FAIRLY HIGH WATER
TABLE IN THIS THIS AREA THAT
EVEN GETTING THE PARKING
HALFWAY DOWN GAVE THE VOLUME
HALFWAY DOWN.
WE LOOKED AT THAT AS WELL.
WE'D STILL BE PUSHING DOWN INTO
THE WATER TABLE AND THEN OUR
WATER OUR STORMWATER RETENTION
WHICH IS FAIRLY LARGE WOULD
ALSO BE IN THERE.
SO IF THOSE FOUR ALWAYS MISSED
SOMETHING AND THE VARIANCE GETS
EVERYTHING FOR EVERY PART
OF THE PROJECT STORMWATER
PARKING THAT THAT'S NEEDED
THERE AND THEN PARK ON TOP FOR
FOR EVERYONE.
SO THEN WE'RE LOOKING AT AND I
DID SEND SOME QUESTIONS TO
STAFF WHEN WHEN THIS GOT ON OUR
AGENDA.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT 300 WHAT IS
IT THREE EIGHT UM THREE HUNDRED
AND EIGHT PERCENT SO FAR WITH
THIS VARIANCE AND THEN MR. LEO,
YOU YOU TALKED ABOUT THE FACT
THAT THEY WOULDN'T QUALIFY FOR
THE EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT PEDESTRIAN AMENITY OR DO
THEY THEY DO OK SO THAT BRINGS
IT DOWN FROM THREE ELEVEN TO
THREE EIGHT OR IS IT FROM THREE
FORTY FIVE TO THREE ELEVEN TO
THREE EIGHT THE THREE TWENTY
FIVE IT WOULD BE THE VARIANCE
OF TAKING THE PARKING OUT WHICH
WOULD THEN STILL PUT THEM ABOVE
THE THE THE C WHEN THEY OUR
DISTRICT ALLOWS THREE HUNDRED
PERCENT FOR THEY WHICH IS THE
RATIO PERCENTAGE OF THE LOT
IT'S THREE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF THE LOT AREA THAT'S YOUR
BUILDING SIZE AND THEN THERE IS
AND SO THAT'S JUST THREE
HUNDRED PERCENT AND THAT FLOOR
AREA IS TWO HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN
THOUSAND FOUR AND FORTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET RIGHT THEN YOU CAN
GO EIGHT THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
ABOVE THAT SO TWO HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND SO WITH
THE PEDESTRIAN ANY PREMIUM THE
WAY IT'S WORDED IT SAYS THAT
YOU TAKE YOUR THE THREE HUNDRED
PERCENT BUT THAT NUMBER IS AND
THEN YOU CAN ADD EIGHT THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET SO THERE'S NO SORT
OF MAX CAP BUT IF YOU DO BUT IF
YOU DO THEY STILL STAY BE MAXED
OUT BUT YEAH YEAH BUT IF YOU GO
FOR THE THE EXTRA SQUARE
FOOTAGE THAT WE ARE IN DEBATE
ABOUT.
>> YEAH AND IF YOU DO THE MATH
THE THREE HUNDRED PERCENT ARE
PLUS EIGHT THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
THAT'S THREE HUNDRED AND
ELEVEN.
>> OK GREAT THANK TO MY
COLLEAGUES SINCE THIS IS A OUR
FIRST MASS TIMBER RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT I THINK IN THE
STATE OF MESHUGGAH RIGHT
BECAUSE THERE IS HALLI MR. WEST
THAT FIRST TALL VERY TALL OK
GOOD THANK FOR THAT QUALIFIER
IN ANN ARBOR.
COULD YOU JUST TAKE A MOMENT
AND TALK ABOUT THIS MATERIAL
BECAUSE IT'S NEW AND THEN CAN
YOU TALK ABOUT ITS
SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS AS WELL
?
>> AND I THINK YOU HAD A SLIDE
ABOUT THE CAPTURED CARBON AND
THEN CAN YOU EXPLAIN BOTH THE
HEIGHTS SO THE LIMITATION I
KNOW YOU JUST SAID THAT THE
YOU'RE USING A NEWER VERSION
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING
CODE AND SO YOU HAVE A CAP
OF EIGHTY FIVE FEET FOR THAT
BUT YOU ARE ALSO DEVELOPING THE
BUILDING ON TOP OF A EITHER A
PODIUM OR SOME KIND OF CONCRETE
STEEL BASE.
SO COULD YOU TALK ABOUT THOSE
THINGS.
>> YES AS WELL JUST FOR A
MOMENT.
YEAH I'LL START WITH THE WITH
THE CODE I GUESS SO THIS IS
WHERE MICHIGAN WE WORK WITH THE
TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE .
THIS IS ADOPTED STATEWIDE THE
STATE WE'VE BEEN WORKING WITH
CLOSE COLLEAGUES AT MICHIGAN
STATE UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT
OF FORESTRY LOBBYING STATE
REPRESENTATIVES AND PEOPLE WERE
LAURA TO UPDATE THE GO TO THE
TWENTY TWENTY ONE IBC WHICH HAS
PROVISIONS FOR A NEW BUILDING
TYPE WHICH IS FOR ENGINEERED
TIMBER AND TALL MASS TIMBER
BUILDINGS.
SO ANYTHING NOW YOU SEE OUT
BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN BUILT WITH
WOOD MASS TIMBER FOR A LONG
TIME AND THEY'VE BEEN
PREDOMINANTLY UP TO FIVE
STORIES.
THAT'S WHAT IT'S ALLOWED NOW
WITH THE NEW BUILDING
CODE THAT'S ADOPTED BY THE
TWENTY TWENTY ONE IBC WHICH
WILL BE ADOPTED IN MICHIGAN
HOPEFULLY SHORTLY THAT WOULD
ALLOW US TO BUILD WITH EXPOSED
MASS TIMBER UP TO EIGHT STORIES
RESIDENTIAL IN EIGHTY FIVE FEET
FROM THE GROUND PLANE.
SO THAT'S THAT EIGHTY FIVE IS A
CAP FROM THE GROUND AND NOT
FROM THE CONCRETE PODIUM LEVEL.
WE CAN'T GET ANY MORE HEIGHT
OUT OF THAT BY STRICTLY STAYING
TO THAT BUILDING TYPE AND NOT
ADDING INVARIANTS ON TOP
OF THAT THIS IS A BUILDING
MATERIAL THAT THE WALL GULAM
BEAMS COLUMNS HAVE BEEN USED
FOR FOR A WHILE ENGINEERED
LUMBER LIKE THAT ACROSS
LAMINATED TIMBER IS USED FOR
THE FLOOR DECKING WHICH IS A
FAIRLY NEW INVENTION FROM THE
FROM THE NINETIES THAT IS USED
FOR ENTIRE FLOOR DECKING WITH A
CONCRETE TOPPER ON TOP OF THAT.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF MASS IN
THAT FLOOR DECKING AND IT ALSO
OFFERS FIRE RESISTANCE RATING
FOR THE FLOOR.
THAT'S ANOTHER BIG CHANGE
OF HOW WE CAN BUILD TALL WITH
WITH MASS TIMBER IS THAT IT
OFFERS REALLY GOOD FIRE
RESISTANCE.
THAT'S WHAT'S REQUIRED FOR
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
SO FROM THAT WE HAVE FOR FOR
ITS CARBON .
SO A TREE GROWING IS GOING TO
CAPTURE A LOT OF CARBON OVER
ITS LIFESPAN AND THIS IS GOING
TO USE A LOT OF LUMBER.
>> THE LUMBER BEING FORESTED IN
FORESTS IS AS WE'VE LEARNED FOR
THE PAST WE'VE BEEN GOING TO
THE MASTER PRECONFERENCE FROM
LAST YEAR.
SYDNEY SPOKE AT THE MASSIVE
CONFERENCE IN PORTLAND THIS
YEAR ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
WE'VE LEARNED THAT
DEFORESTATION IS NOT REALLY IS
NOT A IS NOT PRODUCING LUMBER
IN IN THE UNITED STATES.
IT'S NOT A FOREST STEWARDSHIP
MANAGE WAY OF PRODUCING LUMBER
THAT FORESTS NEED GOOD LAND
MANAGEMENT TO KEEP BIOMASS FROM
FALLING DOWN AND THEN DRYING
OUT AND THEN BURNING CAUSING
THESE MASSIVE WILDFIRES FIRES
OUT IN THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST.
SO WHEN A TREE FALLS AND BURNS
IT RELEASES ALL THAT CARBON .
SO WE'RE TAKING IT CUTTING
TREES DOWN IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY
THAT IS THEN GOING TO BE
REPLANTED PUTTING INTO A
BUILDING THAT IS SEQUESTERING A
LOT OF THAT CARBON IN THE
BUILDING.
SO THIS DIAGRAM AND CHART YOU
SEE HERE, THIS IS HOW MUCH
CARBON IT WOULD TAKE TO TO
PRODUCE THIS BUILDING VERSUS A
TYPICAL CONCRETE BUILD
CONSTRUCTION AND VERSUS TYPICAL
STEEL STEEL CONSTRUCTION.
SO ALREADY WE'RE ABOUT HALF
OF THE CARBON THAT IT TAKES TO
BUILD A BUILDING.
THIS IS I MEAN THESE ARE THE
REAL NUMBERS WHAT IT TAKES TO
BUILD A BUILDING THAT TAKES A
LOT OF ENERGY.
IT'S ONE HUNDRED NINETY THREE
THOUSAND MATURE TREES OF CARBON
AND ONE YEAR AND FOUR THOUSAND
OR FOUR THOUSAND FLIGHTS.
BUT WHAT USING WOOD IT'S
SEQUESTERING ABOUT 80 PERCENT
OF THAT CARBON THAT OTHERWISE
IS BEING PRODUCED INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE AND KEEPING IT
INSIDE THE BUILDING AND THE NEW
TREES PLANTED AND SEQUESTER
MORE CARBON AND THE CYCLE
CONTINUES.
SO THAT'S THE THAT'S THE REALLY
GREAT SUSTAINABLE
PRODUCT
OF MASS TIMBER AND THEN IT HAS
TO BE ON A CONCRETE PODIUM
BECAUSE OF THE USE UNDERNEATH
TO SEPARATE.
YEAH, WE HAVE WE HAVE CARS
PARKING UNDERNEATH AND WE HAVE
OTHER COMMERCIAL USES.
WE HAVE ELECTRICAL ROOMS.
WE HAVE GENERATOR ROOMS THAT WE
NEED A CERTAIN LEVEL OF FIRE
RESISTANCE BETWEEN THAT AND
OTHER PARTS OF THE BUILDING.
SO THAT'S WHY THE PODIUM IS
REQUIRED BY BUILDING CODE TO BE
CONCRETE.
>> WE'RE DOING AS MUCH AS WE
CAN.
THANK YOU SO THIS QUESTION NO,
IT'S A HELPFUL QUESTION OR
ANSWER.
>> I THINK THIS QUESTION NOW IS
FOR STAFF LEO, IF YOU COULD
JUST WALK ME THROUGH AGAIN THE
THE SETBACKS THE TEN FOOT AND
NINETEEN AND THE FIVE.
SO I THINK MY UNDERSTANDING IS
BECAUSE THEY ARE EXCEEDING THE
SETBACKS IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
DEVELOPMENT THEY ARE DEVELOPING
TO THE 50 PERCENT MINIMUM
OF THAT ZONING AREA WHICH WOULD
BE TEN SO FIFTY PERCENT OF IT
WOULD BE FIVE.
SO THEY WOULD FIT THAT BUT WE
ARE REJECTING WHAT IS IN THE
ZONING ORDINANCE AND REQUEST
ARE REQUESTING NINETEEN INSTEAD
NOT SO MUCH OF A REJECTION BUT
BUT MINOR BUT YEAH BUT BUT AN
AD ON GOING ABOVE AND BEYOND SO
YES THE C ONE IN OUR DISTRICT
REQUIRES A TEN FOOT STEP BACK
FROM THE FRONTALOT LINE.
THIS SITE HAS FOUR FRONT LOT
LINES NO SIDE NO WE'RE OK.
>> THE EVOLUTION OF PLAN
PROJECTS WE EXPANDED A LITTLE
BIT OF THE FLEXIBILITY.
IT'S IN A SECTION OF CODE THAT
ALLOWS FOR ALTERNATIVES TO
SETBACKS AND YARDS.
>> THE YARD MEETING SPACE
BETWEEN THE LINE AND THE
BUILDING THAT IS THE FRONT YARD
EXAMPLE THE C WHEN I ASKED OUR
DISTRICT REQUIRES TEN FOOT
MINIMUM FRONT SET BACK ALL
MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS CAN
REDUCE A MINIMUM SET BACK HALF
IF THEN YOU INCREASE ANOTHER
SETBACK TO BALANCE THE WHOLE
THING OUT AND SO THEY ARE I
GUESS IF THEY STARTED WITH TEN
FEET ON ALL FOUR SIDES SHIFTED
THE BUILDING TO FIVE FEET ON A
STATE STREET SIDE, THEY CAN
GIVE YOU MAYBE MORE SPECIFIC
EXACTLY THE CALCULATIONS.
>> BUT IN THE END THE TOTAL
AMOUNT OF SETBACK AREA REMAINS
EQUAL OR MORE THAN THE MINIMUM
REQUIRED.
THE SETBACKS ARE TAKEN FROM THE
LAST LINE AND HERE THE ENEMY
MIGHT NEED TO REMIND ME THE
DIMENSIONS BUT THE THEN THE
PUBLIC RIGHT.
THE PUBLIC SIDEWALK IS IN THE
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY SIDE AND IT
MIGHT BE TEN FEET BETWEEN THE
CURB AND THEN THE FIVE FOOT
TREE LAWN AND THE FIVE FOOT
SIDEWALK THAT MIGHT BE TEN FEET
SO THIS BUILDING WOULD BE
FIFTEEN FEET FROM THE CURB
OF STATE STREET WHICH IS NOT
TERRIBLE.
BUT GIVEN THE NUMBER
OF OCCUPANTS IN THE BUILDING A
FIVE FOOT SIDEWALK IS JUST TOO
IS TOO TIGHT.
IT'S NOT VERY IT'S NOT GOING TO
BE VERY COMFORTABLE.
YOU CAN IMAGINE TWO PEOPLE
PASSING BY ON A SIDEWALK FIVE
FEET WIDE IS FINE.
>> BUT IF YOU HAVE THIRTY
PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE IT TO A
NINE O'CLOCK CLASS OR WHATEVER
,YOU'RE GOING TO WANT AN EIGHT
FOOT WIDE SIDEWALK AND YOU
DON'T WANT THAT SIDEWALK TOO
CLOSE TO THE STREET BECAUSE
THERE'S THINGS PASSING BY.
YOU WANT ALL THAT SPACE.
SO THE IDEAL AMOUNT OF SPACE
BETWEEN THE BACK OF A CURB AND
THE BUILDING FACE IS 19 FEET.
THIS PROJECT BY MINIMUM
CODE THAT IS LET'S CALL FIFTEEN
FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES SO WE
ASK THEM TO VOLUNTARILY PUSH IT
BACK FARTHER ON ALL SIDES SO AT
19 FEET IS ACHIEVED BETWEEN THE
BACK OF THE CURB AND THE
BUILDING AND THIS IS MORE THAN
THE MINIMUM WILL ACCEPT PER
ZONING STANDARDS WHICH WOULD BE
FIVE FEET FROM THE LAST LINE
AND THEN WHATEVER DIMENSION IT
IS THEN FROM THE CURB.
SO IF I CAN CLARIFY THANK YOU.
AND YOU KNOW WE I'VE EMAILED I
EMAILED YOU THIS AND YOU ANSWER
AND SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
I FULLY UNDERSTAND.
SO THE WAY THAT I READ THE
MOTION HOWEVER WAS THAT STAFF
WAS RECOMMENDING POSTPONEMENT
AND MADE THIS CONDITIONAL.
SO THAT'S WHY I SAID THAT IT
WAS REJECTING THIS AT THE
BEGINNING AND BUT IN YOUR
DESCRIPTION JUST NOW YOU TALKED
ABOUT IT AS A VOLUNTARY REQUEST
OF THE DEVELOPMENT.
SO IS THERE IS THERE ANY
DISTANCE IN THOSE TERMS OR IS
THAT A DIFFERENCE WITHOUT A
DISTINCTION?
>> I TRIED TO SAY I TRIED TO BE
VERY CLEAR THAT APPLICANT TEAM
LIKE WHAT WOULD IT TAKE FOR THE
STEP STAFF SUPPORT RIGHT.
>> I HAD TO TWO PRINCIPLES.
I THOUGHT THAT THE BUILDING
NEEDED 19 FEET FROM THE BACK
OF THE BUILDING FACE BECAUSE IT
IS A SORT OF URBAN STYLE
BUILDING GOING IN A RESIDENTIAL
SCALE AND I THOUGHT THAT FOR
CONSISTENCY AND UNIFORMITY THAT
IT NEEDS TO HAVE A MEASUREMENT
OF MASS THAT IS THREE HUNDRED
PERCENT F.R. PLUS EIGHT
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT THE MINIMUM
STANDARDS ARE AND THEY ARE
MEETING THE NIGHT MY 19 FOOT
REQUEST BUT THE BUILDING THEY
DID NOT REDUCE THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDING SO THE BUILD OK, I'M
SORRY YOU JUST SAID SOMETHING
NEW.
THEY ARE MEETING THE NINETEEN
SO IS THAT LONGER IN THE THE
THE POSTPONEMENT SO WHEN YOU
WHEN YOU EMAILED ME ON FRIDAY
IT WAS THE POSTPONEMENT WAS
CONDITIONED ON THAT 19 FOOT AND
SO NOW IT'S BEING THAT I
HONESTLY CAN'T REMEMBER EXACTLY
WHAT I WROTE ON FRIDAY.
OK, BUT I DID NOT MEAN TO IMPLY
THAT THE POSTPONEMENT IS SORT
OF THE TOTALITY.
>> THERE ARE OUTSTANDING STAFF
COMMENTS RIGHT ACROSS
DEPARTMENTS.
>> SO THERE WERE THERE WERE TWO
I'M JUST I AM IF YOU WILL
PERMIT ME I JUST WANT CLARITY
SO THAT I UNDERSTAND BECAUSE
I'M GOING TO DO SOMETHING IN A
MOMENT AND I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THE THING I DO IS THE RIGHT
THING AND THIS IS HOW WE
DISABUSE ME OF THAT NOW.
>> SO THE LET ME JUST NEVADO I
DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE WERE
POSTPONING THIS.
THIS IS A REFERRAL TO CITY
COUNCIL SO COUNCIL IS GOING TO
GET THIS THERE'S GOING TO GET A
FIRST READING THEN THERE'S
GOING TO BE A SECOND READING
PLUS A PUBLIC HEARING THEY HAVE
TO GO TO ZIBA THIS FEELS LIKE
AN UNNECESSARY DELAY IN A
PROCESS THAT IS ALREADY
ONGOING.
>> SO GIVEN THAT I HAVEN'T BEEN
WORKING WITH THE DEVELOPER FOR
A YEAR AND YOU HAVE I WANT TO
DEFER TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU ARE COMMUNICATING TO
US AT THE TABLE AND WHEN I
EMAILED AND WE EXCHANGE AND
THANK YOU SO MUCH QUITE PROMPT
.
QUITE EXHAUSTIVE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
RESPONSE TO ME.
>> IT SEEMED THERE WERE TWO
THINGS AND THE TWO THINGS WERE
THE DEVELOPER NEEDED TO MEET A
NINETEEN FOOT MINIMUM SET BACK
AND THE DEVELOPER NEED NOT TO
EXCEED 300 PERCENT.
THEY ARE IS THAT THAT I READ
THAT CORRECTLY.
I KNOW THERE'S ALL THE STAFF
AND TRAFFIC AND ALL THOSE
THINGS BUT SO THOSE WERE MY TWO
ORIGINAL STIPULATIONS FOR MY
SUPPORT OF THE ZONING
DESIGNATION.
OK, AND THEY HAVE THAT ONE
OF THEM OK THE BUILDING IS DOES
PROVIDE 19 FEET FOR WHATEVER
MANNER THAT'S GONE.
>> YES.
AND SO NOW THE ISSUE IS THE
FAAB WHICH IS UP TO ZIBA IT IS
OK MR I COULD SO SO WE I JUST
WANT TO SORT OF ECHO THAT WE WE
DID HAVE SOME STAFF
CONVERSATION ON THIS AND THE
QUESTION OF THIS OPTION BEFORE
YOU IS DOES IT MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF OUR CODE AND IN
ITS CURRENT CONFIGURATION IT
DOES NOT.
>> YOU COULD DO THAT AND THAT
IS THAT IS ACHIEVABLE IN A
COUPLE OF WAYS.
>> ONE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION
COULD DENY THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE THE PROPOSED ZONING IS
NOT THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN DOES
NOT COMPLY WITH THE ZONING
THAT'S BEING ASKED FOR.
>> AND SO THAT'S ONE SCENARIO.
THE SECOND SCENARIO IS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION COULD
APPROVE THE TYPE PLAN WITHOUT
POSTPONING THE SUBJECT TO OR
CONDITION UPON THE GRANTING
OF A VARIANCE BY THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS THAT HAS NOT
HAPPENED YET.
>> I WANT I WANT TO SORT
OF STICK I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
FOR ALEXIS BUT I WANT TO SPEAK
IN FOR MY VOICE THIS PETITIONER
AS NOTED WE THINK THE C R IS AN
APPROPRIATE ZONING DISTRICT FOR
IT.
>> THE NOTION THAT THERE ARE
HARDSHIPS AROUND THIS
PARTICULAR COMPLETELY NEW
DEVELOPMENT ON BASICALLY WHAT'S
GOING TO BE COMPLETELY A BLANK
SLATE PROPERTY SEEMS LIKE A
HEAVY LIFT FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
BUT THAT'S NOT MY DECISION TO
MAKE.
>> THAT'S THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
>> AND SO IN THE CONTEXT
OF THAT TIMING, I JUST WANT TO
BE CLEAR YOU COULD ABSOLUTELY
GO AGAINST ANY RECOMMENDATION
TO POSTPONE IF YOU WANTED TO DO
SO IT WOULD HAVE TO BE WITH THE
FULL KNOWLEDGE THAT THIS SITE
PLAN AS PRESENTED DOES NOT MEET
THE C WHEN THEY ARE ZONING THAT
IS BEING ASKED FOR BY THE
PETITIONER AND IF THAT'S IF YOU
WISH TO DO THAT, I WOULD
RECOMMEND STRONGLY THAT IT IS
CONDITIONAL UPON THE GRANTING
OF THAT VARIANCE BY THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS.
SO I HAVE TO FOLLOW UP
QUESTIONS IS IT OK TO GET MY
THE FIRST ONE?
>> OK, SO THE FIRST QUESTION IS
THEN WHY ARE WE SEEING THIS NOW
AND NOT AFTER TZVIA?
>> WELL, THERE'S THERE'S NO
REQUIREMENTS THAT ONE HAS TO
HAPPEN BEFORE THE OTHER.
I THINK THERE'S MERITS ACTUALLY
IN BOTH THAT THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS COULD CONSIDER IT
EARLIER OR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CONSIDERED EARLIER.
>> I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THERE'S NO RIGHT OR WRONG
ANSWER TO THAT IN THIS CASE WE
WERE INTENDING TO BRING THIS TO
YOU.
>> OBVIOUSLY IT'S SCHEDULED TO
THIS WE HAVE TO MAKE THAT
DECISION ABOUT A MONTH IN
ADVANCE THE COALESCING OF THE
FACT THAT THIS WAS SCHEDULED
BEFORE THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND THE FACT THAT
OVER THAT TIME PERIOD SINCE WE
WERE ASPIRING TO HAVE ALL STAFF
COMMENTS RELATED EXCEPT FOR
THAT OUTSTANDING ONE THAT'S MY
RECOMMENDATION WAS THEN AT THAT
POINT TO MR. LEO IS TO GIVEN
THE FACT THAT WE HAD SO MANY
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS AND THE
FACT THAT THIS QUESTION REMAINS
TO THE ZONING BOARD APPEALS, I
THOUGHT IT WAS APPROPRIATE TO
BRING IN HERE FOR A PRELIMINARY
FEEDBACK FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION OR ACTION CONTINGENT
UPON THAT.
BUT IT GIVES THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ACTUALLY THE
OPPORTUNITY IF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO TRANSMIT ANY COMMENT TO THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IN
REGARDS TO THIS PETITION.
BUT YOU'VE BEEN VERY CLEAR AT
THE TABLE THAT WE ARE SEPARATE
TABLES, YOU ARE SEPARATE.
>> WE SHOULD NOT USE OUR TABLE
TO INFLUENCE WHAT THEY DO AT
THEIR TABLE BECAUSE WHEN WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT EV CHARGERS, WHEN
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT WHETHER
THOSE ARE THERE WERE TWO
CHURCHES I THINK THAT CAME
THROUGH AND I KNOW I HAD A
WHOLE HOST OF QUESTIONS LIKE OH
CAN WE SEND A BIKE?
WE APPROVED THIS BUT PUT A NOTE
ON IT AND YOU TOLD ME THAT
WOULD BE INAPPROPRIATE AND SO
I'M JUST TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
BECAUSE I'M CONFUSED NOW
CONFUSED THAT A DEVELOPMENT
THAT DOES NOT MEET OUR ZONING
IS AT THE TABLE BEING ASKED FOR
US TO VOTE ON IT.
IT WOULD SEEM THAT THAT DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE.
IT'S NONCONFORMING AND I DON'T
UNDERSTAND WHY WE WOULD APPROVE
SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
CONFORMING.
THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
YOUR DEVELOPMENT.
>> THIS IS A STAFF QUESTION.
>> THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND BECAUSE IT'S A FAIR
CRITIQUE.
I WOULD SAY THAT IN THE PAST
AND I THINK PART OF THAT IS IS
I WANTED TO BRING THAT NOTION
THIS IS A COMPLEX PROJECT.
YOU MIGHT RECALL THE VILLAGES
OF ANN ARBOR WAS ANOTHER
EXAMPLE.
I WAS JUST A RELATIVELY LARGE
PROJECT AND WE THOUGHT THAT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME
COMPLEXITIES AND ASPECTS OF THE
PROJECT THAT ACTUALLY WARRANTED
MAYBE A COUPLE OF A COUPLE
OF REVIEWS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> IT'S NOT NECESSARY AGAIN.
>> NO, I GUESS I WOULD I WOULD
TURN IT AROUND.
>> I WOULD NOT GET SO FOCUSED
ON WHY IT'S HERE.
>> YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY NOW
TO CONSIDER THIS PROPOSAL AND
THE DESIRE YOU WANT.
>> I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR BUT
IT'S IF I CAN YEAH.
IT IS DISORIENTING TO HEAR YOU
SAY THAT BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHEN
COMMISSIONER DESH BROUGHT THE
LAST DEVELOPMENT TO THE WHEN
YOU INTRODUCED LAST NIGHT THE
PUDI THAT WE APPROVED AGAINST
STAFF RECOMMENDATION COUNCIL
HAD A VERY STRONG SORT
OF REACTION TO THAT LIKE WHY
ARE WE GETTING THIS THING THAT
STAFF HAS DENIED AND THEN
PLANNING IS APPROVING AND SO
I'M JUST CONFUSED.
I'M REALLY, REALLY CONFUSED.
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE WE WANT TO
HAVE THESE KINDS
OF DEVELOPMENTS AND AND I'M
GETTING MIXED MESSAGES.
>> I'M GETTING MESSAGES THAT
SAYS WE'RE IN A HOUSING CRISIS
WE NEED TO DEVELOP AND THEN WE
GET DEVELOPERS WHO GO OUT
ACQUIRE LAND, DO VERY THE
INNOVATIVE THINGS THEY'VE
ANSWERED.
I THINK ALMOST EVERYTHING WE'VE
ASKED AT THE TABLE IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND YET WE CAN'T
ACTUALLY APPROVE IT BECAUSE IF
I'M UNDERSTANDING CORRECTLY WE
CAN'T ACTUALLY APPROVE IT
BECAUSE IT'S NONCONFORMING TOO
TO THE ZONING THAT'S INCORRECT
.
YOU CAN APPROVE THIS IF IF YOU
DESIRE TO APPROVE YOU CAN
APPROVE IT AND THAT I WOULD BUT
I WOULD ADVISE THAT YOU YOU ARE
A REGULATORY BODY, OK?
AND SO YOUR JOB IS IS NOT TO
YOU DON'T HAVE THE ABILITY
ALWAYS TO MAKE A DECISION
ABSENCE ABSENT THE PARAMETERS
OF OUR CODE AND NOR DO WE HAVE
STAFF AND SO WE DO OUR BEST AND
IT'S NOT ALWAYS LINEAR.
>> IT'S NOT ALWAYS EASY FRANKLY
AND WE TRY OUR BEST TO FIND
THOSE BALANCES IN THIS CASE IF
YOU DESIRE I JUST WANT I JUST
WANT TO BE CRYSTAL CLEAR THAT
YOU CAN THE PLANNING COMMISSION
IS FULL WITHIN YOUR AUTHORITY
TO APPROVE.
IF YOU DO THAT I WOULD HIGHLY
RECOMMEND THAT YOU ARE
CONCLUDING THAT IT WILL MEET
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE UDC ON
THE CONDITION THAT THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS DETERMINES TO
GRANT THAT THERE IS SOMETHING
UNIQUE ABOUT THIS SITE AND THE
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THIS
PROJECT THAT WARRANT DEVIATION
FROM THE REQUIREMENTS THE C 1A,
OUR ZONING DISTRICT YOU CAN YOU
CAN ABSOLUTELY DO THAT.
>> I WOULD NOT ADVISE THAT YOU
APPROVE THIS SITE PLAN AT THREE
HUNDRED AND FORTY 311 OR 345
PERCENT RAFAAT AND CONCLUDE
THAT IT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE CWA OUR DISTRICT.
>> OK AND THEN TO THE DEVELOPER
IF ZIBA DENIES YOU IF YOU GO
BACK TO YOUR PARKING THING ARE
YOU ABLE TO DO THE BUILD TO DO
THE DEVELOPMENT AND SITE THE
300 PERCENT F.R. BECAUSE
OF ANOTHER QUESTION THAT I
ASKED TO STAFF WHEN I SAW THIS
IS WHERE DOES THIS FIT WITHIN
OUR ZONING AND THE ONLY THING
THAT WOULD MAKE THIS WORK AT OR
IF THEY ARE WOULD BE A D ONE.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT.
OR PUDI BECAUSE THEN YOU DON'T
HAVE THE SAME HEIGHT
RESTRICTION THEN AND WE CAN
FLEX THE FA SO AND I FORGOT MY
PLANNING BOOK I ACTUALLY I'VE
BEEN CARRYING MY PLANNING BOOK
TODAY.
I'VE BEEN LOOKING AT
EVERYTHING.
>> NO SERIOUSLY I HAVE ACTUALLY
SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON THIS ON
THIS DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE I AM I
AM CONFUSED AND I CAN GO WHAT
WAS THAT I CAN GO GET YOU NO NO
NOT THE UDC.
I CARRIED THE UDC IN MY I HAVE
AN ANNOTATED I KNOW I HAVE ALL
THOSE THINGS THERE.
I'M TALKING ABOUT MY PLANNER
CITIZEN PLANNERS BOOK THAT I
GOT FROM THE EXTENSION MSU
BECAUSE THEY WALK THROUGH ALL
THESE THINGS AND THAT'S WHY I
WAS PUSHING BACK MR. LEONARD
WAS THE BECAUSE IT SOUNDS LIKE
WE'RE BEING ASKED TO APPROVE A
NON CONFORMING DEVELOPMENT AND
I THINK I APPRECIATE YOUR
CLARITY.
I'LL LET THE DEVELOPER ANSWER
MY QUESTION AND THEN I WILL SEE
TO MY COLLEAGUES.
>> SO YEAH, I MEAN IF WE IF WE
DO NOT WE HAVE A TOUGH CHOICE
TO MAKE.
THERE'S TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET THAT ALSO COULD BE
TAKEN AWAY FROM HOUSING WHICH
WE DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO DO
AND THE FEASIBILITY OF PUSHING
THE PARKING DOWN AND THE
STORMWATER VAULT DOWN DOESN'T
DOESN'T WORK EITHER THEN IT'S
EITHER NO PARK THAT'S
ACCESSIBLE OR NO NO PARKING
WHICH IS STILL SOMEONE NEEDED
IN THIS THIS AREA AS WE'VE
HEARD FROM OTHER CONCERNS.
>> BUT YOU COULD BUILD A
DEVELOPMENT WITH NO PARKING AND
THEN THAT WOULD BE THE COSTS
AND THAT WOULD GET US INSIDE
THE FARC THAT WOULD MEET MR.
LEO'S REQUIREMENTS.
>> SINCE YOU'VE ALREADY MET THE
NINETEEN, I THINK THE STRUGGLE
WOULD BE MAKING THE PROJECT
WORK FOR THE DEVELOPER AS A
COST SO THAT THERE MIGHT NOT BE
A DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE THE NEXT
THING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I'LL I'LL SEE IS THIS DIRECTLY
RELATED TO THIS OK AND THEN I
WOULD LIKE TO FOLLOW SOMETHING
I HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT
ARE BUT THIS ONE IS DIRECTLY
RELATED TO GO WHY DON'T YOU GO
FIRST AND THEN I'LL GO AHEAD
BECAUSE I HAVE A LITANY
OF THINGS INCLUDING ONE THAT
DIRECTLY FOLLOWS ON FROM THIS
OK, SO THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS
ABOUT THIS PROJECT THAT I LOVE
THERE IS ONE THING THAT IS
REALLY HANGING ME UP AND THAT
IS AIRBNB BECAUSE THIS
DEVELOPER CAME TO US SEVERAL
YEARS AGO AND SAID SHE WAS
DOING A DEVELOPMENT FOR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS AND SHE HAS
SEVERAL PROPERTIES AROUND TOWN
AND THEY ARE ALL LISTED AS
SHORT TERM RENTALS.
ALL OF THEM I FEEL A LITTLE
SALTY ABOUT WHAT SHE CAME UP
AND PROMISED US THAT WAS LEGAL
THEN.
>> BUT SHE I FEEL LIKE SHE KIND
OF MISLED US BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
I HAVE A HARD TIME SEEING HOW
THIS COULD NOT JUST TURN INTO
AIRBNB LAND AND THAT IS EXACTLY
THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT WE WANT
BECAUSE IF THIS BECOMES ALL
AIRBNB IN MY MIND IT'S BETTER
IF YOU LEAVE THOSE EXISTING
HOUSES WHICH ARE AT LEAST
AFFORDABLE AND THAT'S KIND
OF BLACK AND WHITE STATEMENT I
MAY NOT TOTALLY FEEL THAT WAY
BUT I THERE'S BEEN SOME HISTORY
HERE WHICH A FEW OF US HAVE
BEEN AROUND AND WHEN YOU
DEVIATE A LITTLE BIT PEOPLE
REMEMBER FRANKLY I DON'T THINK
I EVEN WOULD HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT
THIS IF IT HADN'T BEEN HER
COMING FORWARD BUT SHE DID SO I
NEED SOME SORT OF ASSURANCE
THAT THIS THING IS NOT GOING TO
BECOME SHORT TERM RENTAL LAND
BECAUSE THAT IS COMPLETELY
ANTITHETICAL TO OUR HOUSING
ISSUES HERE.
>> SO THERE'S AGAIN SO MANY
THINGS I LIKE ABOUT THIS
PROJECT REALLY BUT THAT IS
REALLY HANGING ME UP AND SO
SHE'S NOT HERE TONIGHT TO BE
ABLE TO TALK ABOUT HER OWN
HISTORY.
YOU ALL WORK ON, YOU KNOW,
REPRESENTING HER AT THAT POINT.
BUT FOR ME I AM GLAD WE ARE NOT
THAT WE HAVE MORE TO DISCUSS
TONIGHT BECAUSE THAT ONE IS A
BIG ONE FOR ME BECAUSE I TRULY
FEEL LIKE THAT ACTUALLY MAKES
OUR HOUSING SITUATION WORSE IF
THAT BECOMES INSTEAD OF LIKE WE
CAN COUNT ON THESE THE HOUSING
THAT'S THERE THAT IT THEN
BECOMES OPEN TO THE WORLD.
>> AND I'M JUST GOING TO SAY
ONE STORY THAT I HAD THAT I WAS
JUST IN VANCOUVER WHERE THEY'RE
HAVING ALL KINDS OF ISSUES WITH
HOUSING.
WE DID A SHORT TERM RENTAL IN A
BUILDING AND BIG BUILDING 30
STORIES, SOMETHING LIKE THAT
MANY UNITS THERE WAS A FIRE
ALARM ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT
SEVEN
O'CLOCK.
YOU KNOW HOW MANY PEOPLE CAME
DOWN LIKE EVERYBODY HAD TO
LEAVE THE BUILDING?
THIRTY PEOPLE THIRTY PEOPLE
CAME OUT AND WE JUST CHATTED
WITH PEOPLE EVERYBODY WAS
AIRBNB PEOPLE.
>> SO THEY ARE JUST NOT THAT
EFFICIENT IF THEY COULD BE
SHORT TERM RENTALS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT OF THE TIME ALL THE
TIME THAT JUST DOESN'T HAPPEN.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF EMPTY IN A
PLACE THAT STILL MAKES MONEY
FOR PEOPLE WITH AIRBNB AGAIN IS
NOT JUST AIRBNB, THERE'S OTHER
PLACES TOO.
>> SO I WANT THIS THING TO HAVE
PEOPLE LIVING IN IT.
THAT'S WHAT I WANT.
YEAH I WANT COMMISSIONER MILLS
TO BE ABLE TO FOLLOW ON THE
CONVERSATION OF COMMISSIONER
WHITECHURCH BUT WE HAVE COUNCIL
HAS HEARD OUR CONCERNS FROM
CONSTITUENTS AND THERE WAS AN
EXCHANGE WHICH I THINK MIGHT
HAVE BEEN FROM BETWEEN THE
OWNER AND COUNCIL MEMBER IA.
I CAN'T TELL BECAUSE THE WAY
THE COMMUNICATION WAS FORWARDED
I COULDN'T TELL WHO WROTE TO
COUNCIL MEMBER EITHER BUT I
WANTED TO READ YOU THE WORDS
OF THIS COMMUNICATION BECAUSE
IF IN MY MIND IT SUGGESTS THAT
THERE MIGHT BE OTHER CONDITIONS
THAT MIGHT BE OFFERED WITH THIS
PROJECT SO I'LL JUST READ IT.
WE WILL USE A NUMBER OF THE
SOUTHTOWN UNITS FOR SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
>> THE PREPONDERANCE THOUGH
WILL BE A LONG WILL BE LONG
TERM RENTALS.
HERE IS ANOTHER IMPORTANT POINT
AND I'M STILL QUOTING WE WILL
CONVERT SIXTY 63 SHORT TERM
BEDS IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD
FROM THE CURRENT SHORT TERM
RENTAL STATUS TO LONG TERM
RENTAL STATUS ONCE SOUTHTOWN IS
COMPLETE ONCE THAT IS DONE
THERE WILL BE A NET REDUCTION
IN FOUR M SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> ANOTHER IMPORTANT POINT IS
THAT WE ARE ACTIVELY PARTNERING
WITH OTHERS TO DRAW YOUNG
MOSTLY FEMALE ENTREPRENEURS TO
ANN ARBOR WITH THE HOPE
OF CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
CURRENT AND FUTURE RESIDENTS.
>> OUR STAR PROPERTIES ARE AT
THE CENTER OF THIS FOR THESE
ATTRACTION EFFORTS WE ACTUALLY
SET OUR RATES MUCH LOWER
BECAUSE THAT MAKES THE
OPPORTUNITY TO BE PART OF THIS
SMALL BUT BURGEONING STARTUP
COMMUNITY POSSIBLE.
ANYONE SHOULD FEEL FREE TO
CONFIRM THIS WITH OUR VARIOUS
PARTNERS INCLUDING ANN ARBOR
SPARKE SO THIS PARAGRAPH AND
I'M SORRY I COULD SEND IT
AROUND AS EMAIL BECAUSE BUT IS
IT.
OH YEAH THAT'S RIGHT.
IT'S IN OH IT IS YEAH YEAH
YOU'RE RIGHT IT'S IN YOUR
PACKET IF YOU READ THIS OR
DON'T ANYWAY ANYHOW YEAH IT WAS
IT WAS ACTUALLY YOU HAD TO
ENLARGE A LOT SO I ACTUALLY
CALLED ANN ARBOR SPARKE AND I
ASKED HOW IT WAS THAT ASTAR
PROPERTIES COULD BE AT THE
CENTER OF A PARTNERSHIP TO DRAW
YOUNG FEMALE ENTREPRENEURS TO
ANN ARBOR.
>> IT WAS THE PERSON WITH WHOM
I SPOKE COULD COULDN'T EXPLAIN
THE CONNECTION AND SO I'D LOVE
TO HEAR YOU CLARIFY THAT AND
I'M NOT AT ALL I DO NOT MEAN
THIS AS A GOTCHA.
>> I JUST MEAN THAT IS
INTERESTING TO ME AND I'D LOVE
TO HEAR HOW THAT WHAT THAT
CONNECTION IS.
>> I'M PLEASED TO HEAR THAT
THERE WILL BE A NET REDUCTION
IN FOUR M SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> I WONDERED IF IF THE PHRASE
IS A NUMBER OF SOUTHTOWN UNITS
FOR SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
PREPONDERANCE FOR LONG TERM
RENTALS.
>> I WONDER IF THOSE COULD BE
QUANTIFIED AND OFFERED AS
CONDITIONS AND I WONDER BUT I
ALSO YES THANK YOU.
>> I WAS LOOKING RIGHT AT YOU
TELL ME HOW BAD OF AN IDEA THAT
IS.
>> NO, NO, NO NOT A BAD IDEA.
I JUST I THINK IT'S A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY JUST TO REMIND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT THE
NATURE OF THIS PETITION.
>> THIS IS A CONDITIONAL
REZONING AND SO WHAT THAT MEANS
IS IT'S PROVIDED FOR IN STATE
LAW.
IT ALLOWS THIS PETITIONER TO
COME TO US AND SAY WE'D LIKE TO
REZONE IT IN THIS CASE TO SEE
WHAT THEY ARE BUT WE ARE GOING
TO ADD CONDITIONS TO THAT.
THAT FURTHER RESTRICT IS NOT TO
BE USED TO FURTHER RELAX.
SO IT IS NOT TO GRANT VARIANCES
BUT TO FURTHER RESTRICT THEY
HAVE TO BE COMPLETELY
VOLUNTARY.
SO THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
WE HAVE THE ABILITY AT THIS
TABLE TO IMPOSE UPON THEM.
SO AND IT THE THE NOTION
OF THAT WOULD BE PERFECTLY
APPROPRIATE TO CONSIDER IN THE
CONTEXT IF THEY WANTED TO TO DO
SO IF THAT WAS DESIRED I WOULD
ASK THAT YOU SORT OF GIVE US
THE SPACE THROUGH A
POSTPONEMENT SO STAFF CAN WORK
WITH THAT PETITIONER ON MAKING
SURE THAT LANGUAGE IS RIGHT.
>> A COUPLE OTHER PIECES I JUST
WANT TO BE CLEAR SEE WHAT THEY
ARE AS A COUPLE PEOPLE HAVE
MENTIONED I THINK INSINUATED I
JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR IT
PERMITS SHORT TERM RENTALS.
SO PART OF YOU KNOW, PART
OF THAT ZONING DISTRICT IS
INTENTIONAL.
I PRESUME ON BEHALF OF THE
PETITIONER IS MAKING SURE THAT
THEY HAVE THAT USE.
I THINK THAT THE DISTRICT I
UNDERSTANDING HAS ALWAYS BEEN
CLEAR THAT SHORT TERM RENTALS
WERE INTENDED TO BE A PART THIS
THAT'S NOT TO SAY THAT THERE
AREN'T SOME DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES ON WHETHER THAT'S
A GOOD THING OR NOT.
BUT I THINK IT IS FAIR THAT
THERE'S NEVER BEEN ANY SORT
OF IN THIS CASE INTENTION TO
SORT OF ADVOCATE THAT IN ANY
WAY.
>> AND THEN LASTLY THE NOTION
OF AS THE QUESTION AS YOU WERE
READING THAT THE NOTION
OF REMOVING SHORT TERM RENTALS
ELSEWHERE I I I SIMILARLY WANT
TO CAUTION THAT THAT MIGHT
SOMETHING THAT WARRANTS A LOT
MORE INFORMATION ABSENT
PERPETUAL OWNERSHIP OR DEED
RESTRICTIONS OF THOSE
PROPERTIES.
THAT'S A REALLY TOUGH THING FOR
US TO BE ABLE TO MEASURE AND
ENFORCE OVER A LONG TERM.
>> SO SO IT'S JUST TO SAY THAT
IF THAT WERE SOMETHING THAT THE
PETITIONER WERE INTERESTED IN,
STAFF WOULD BE HAPPY TO WORK
FOR THEM.
WE'LL WORK WITH THEM TO SORT
OF LOOK AT THAT AS AN
OPPORTUNITY.
BUT I JUST WANT TO SET THAT
STAGE SO EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS
THAT PROCESS.
>> YEAH, I THINK I SHOULD BE
CLEARER.
I OFFER THE QUANTIFICATION OF A
NUMBER OF AND PREPONDERANCE
OF AS FOOD FOR THOUGHT FOR
STAFF NEGOTIATIONS AND THE NET
REDUCTION IS PLEASING TO ME BUT
I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT'S NOT
PART OF THIS DECISION AND I
ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
CONVERSATION WE'RE HAVING NOW
WHICH I'M REALLY GLAD THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP SHOULD GET BRANDELL
BECAUSE I FELT LIKE I NEEDED TO
BRING IT UP AS THE PERSON WHO'S
LIAISON TO THE PEOPLE WHO
REPRESENT THE PEOPLE THAT
HARBOR WE HEARD ABOUT THIS AND
SO I WAS GOING TO RAISE IT IN
MY CAPACITY AS DOING THAT THAT
IS SEPARATE FROM THE DISCUSSION
OF WHETHER THIS PROPOSAL MEETS
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ZONING
AND I BELIEVE THAT IS WHAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS WANTS TO
PURSUE.
>> SO DO YOU MAYBE WE JUST KEEP
ON GOING WHERE YOU WERE GOING
TO GO, COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
WE LET YOU GUYS CHIME IN ON
EVERYTHING LATER.
>> THANKS SHORT TERM REYNOLDS
WERE NOT ON MY BINGO CARD AND
THAT'S NOT ON MY LIST.
SO IF YOU WANT TO ADDRESS THAT
NOW YOU ARE WELCOME TO
OTHERWISE I CAN GO WITH MY LIST
OF WHAT I CAN SAY.
BUT IT'S NOT A SECRET THAT
THESE THAT A PORTION OF THESE
ARE GOING TO BE USED FOR SHORT
TERM RENTALS AND FOR FOR THIS
BUILDING TO ALSO DO IT.
WE'VE DESIGNED LET ME GO TO THE
FLOOR PLANS WE HAVEN'T BEEN
DESIGNING IN A WAY THAT IT'S
MEANT TO BE LIKE SHORT TERM
RENTALS WITH SIX BEDROOMS OR
LIKE BIG GROUP SPACES LIKE WE
WEREN'T INVOLVED IN IN THEIR
PAST PROJECTS.
>> BUT THESE ARE ALL DESIGNED
TO BE POSSIBLE FOR FAMILIES.
THEY'RE MIXED SIZES AND A
DIVERSITY OF SIZES THROUGHOUT
THROUGHOUT THE BUILDINGS SO
THAT THEY CAN BE IF THEY ARE
USED FOR SHORT TERM RENTALS
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT MAKES THE
PROJECT GET BUILT BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT CAN MAKE MONEY TO
GET IT GOING FOR A YEAR OR TWO
AND THEN IT CAN TRANSITION.
THEY ALSO DO OFFER PRETTY
AFFORDABLE SHORT TERM RENTALS.
WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT THEIR UM
THEIR PRICES OF WHAT THEY HAVE
NEARBY AND IT IS REALLY
COMPETITIVE AND AFFORDABLE FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
SURROUNDING ANN ARBOR THAT IT
DOES MAKE IT WELCOMING FOR
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T AFFORD A
HUNDRED AND FIFTY NIGHT RENTAL.
THE OFFER ONE'S LESS THAN ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS IN IN THEIR
BUILDINGS AND I THINK THAT'S
REALLY GOOD FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALSO TO TO
MAKING IT YOU KNOW, IT'S
REPRESENTED BY TWO WOMEN ON AND
STARS THAT ARE OWNED BY WOMEN
AND A BUSINESS IT'S RUN BY
WOMEN MAKES IT I THINK SAFER.
YOU SEEING SOMEONE WHO
REPRESENTS YOU THE SAME WAY IT
MAKES IT MORE COMFORTABLE TO TO
GO TO THEY KNOW WHO THE FACE
OF OF THE BUSINESS IS.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN THESE THESE UNITS ARE
NOT DESIGNED WITH SHORT TERM
RENTAL DESIGN.
THEY'RE DESIGNED TO BE UNITS
THAT CAN BE FLEXIBLE, THAT CAN
CHANGE.
THEY'RE NOT FIXED TO A VERY
UNIQUE USE SO THAT WE WE
THOUGHT ABOUT THAT THROUGHOUT
THE PROCESS THAT THESE CAN BE
USED FOR FOR ANY TERMS
OF RENTALS FROM A DAY TO TWO
YEARS.
MOST OF THESE WOULD BE USED FOR
FOR LONGER TERM LEASES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I WANT TO GROUND US BACK TO
WHERE WE WERE LEFT OFF BEFORE
AND REMIND US ALL BUT WE HAVE
THREE PETITIONS BEFORE US AND
ONE OF THEM IS ABOUT
RECOMMENDING A RECOMMENDATION
TO COUNCIL ABOUT REZONING THAT
WAS OFFERED THAT INCLUDES
CONDITIONS THAT THESE FOLKS
OFFERED THAT WE ARE NOT
SUGGESTING OTHER THINGS AND
THAT ONE, IF IT IS RESOLVED
STAYS WITH THE LAND.
>> THE SECOND PETITION IS IS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE SITE PLAN
WHICH PER THE CONVERSATION THAT
COMMISSIONER WHICH WAS HAVING
WITH MR. LEO BEFORE IS THE ONE
THAT IF WE PASSED IT TONIGHT IF
WE DECIDED TO ACT ON THAT PART
TONIGHT, WE WOULD NEED TO ADD A
I'M NOT GOING TO CALL IT A
CONDITION STIPULATION
EFFECTIVELY WHICH IS WHAT IS
DRAFTED FOR US THAT IS THAT WE
ARE STIPULATING WE'RE APPROVING
IT
BUT ONLY IF THE VARIANCE IS
GRANTED BECAUSE WE CAN'T JUST
PASS IT WITHOUT THAT COMMENT
ABOUT THE SUBJECT TOO WITHOUT
THAT STIPULATION BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T CONFORM WITH OUR
CURRENT PLANS AND THAT ONE
THAT'S TIME LIMITED IF IF MY IF
MY MEMORY IS SERVES ME RIGHT
BUT THAT DOES NOT WORK WITH THE
LAND FOREVER IF WE PASS THE
SITE PLAN IS THAT A IT'S NOT AN
APPROPRIATE WAY TO TO HAVE THAT
IT EXPIRES AT SOME POINT A
VARIANCE DOES RUN WITH THE
LAND.
>> IT MEANS THAT THERE IS
SOMETHING ABOUT THE LAND THAT
NO ONE REGARDLESS APPLICANT CAN
COMPLY.
THEY ARE SAYING THAT THE LAND
IS SO UNIQUE THAT THEY SHOULD
NOT BE ALLOWED THEY SHOULDN'T
HAVE ACCOUNT AT GRADE FOR AREA
USE FOR PARKING SAY NO SORRY.
THE VARIANCE THEY HOPE THAT WE
HAVE NO CONTROL OVER THIS SITE
PLANS YOU CAN PULL A PERMIT FOR
TYPE PLANS ARE VALID FOR THREE
YEARS YOU AND THERE'S AN
EXTENSION PROCESS OK IF SOMEONE
WAS IF THE SITE WERE TO EXPIRE
THE VARIANCE WOULD STILL BE
THERE AND THE NEXT ITERATION
COULD THEN USE THAT VARIANCE
THAT'S ON THE LAND AND THE
REZONING COULD STILL BE THERE
WHICH IS WHAT I'M GOING TO COME
BACK TO REZONING RUN WITH THE
LAND AS WELL.
>> AND THEN THE THIRD ONE IS
ABOUT THE VACATION OF A AND ALI
AND ALI'S VACATE AND THAT ONE
PRESUMABLY ALSO GOES FORWARD
REGARDLESS ONCE WE WERE ABLE TO
VACATED THAT.
>> YEAH, ONCE IT'S DONE, IT'S
DONE.
IT'S DONE OK, SO I THANK YOU
FOR CLARIFYING THAT AND NOW
WHAT I WANT TO SAY IS MANGUM'S
MY OTHER NOTES JUST A MINUTE I
LIKE THIS PLAN A WHAT I WANT IT
TO BE BUILT BUT I ALSO KNOW
THAT THINGS HAPPEN AND I WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE OUR
BASES COVERED IF THIS PLAN
DOESN'T GET BUILT AND THAT'S
WHAT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT AND
THAT'S WHAT I HAVE TAKEN OF MY
JOB I'M PLANNING COMMISSION TO
POKE HOLES INTO TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE THAT PARTICULARLY WHEN
WE'RE THINKING ABOUT REZONING
AND PARTICULARLY FOR THINGS
THAT ARE NOT THE NORM THAT WE
DON'T HAVE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES BY REZONING
THINKING WE'RE GOING TO GET
SOMETHING AND THAT IS FOREVER
THE CASE.
YOU KNOW, THAT RUNS THE LAND
EVEN IF THIS PLAN DOESN'T PAN
OUT THAT PARTICULAR
DEVELOPMENT.
SO I THINK THAT THIS BRINGS UP
A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT THINGS
THAT WELL ACTUALLY I'LL GO TO
MY LIST OF AMUSEMENTS THAT I
FOUND FROM THIS LIKE THINGS
THAT I HADN'T THOUGHT ABOUT FOR
A WHILE WITHIN OUR UDC.
BUT THE FIRST THING THAT I WANT
TO SAY IS THAT I THINK OH, IN
THE COMMENTS THAT WE GOT
TONIGHT, I THINK WHAT I LIKE
ABOUT THIS SPACE AND WHAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE LIKE ABOUT THIS SPACE
IS THAT IT MANAGES TO GET US
HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
TOGETHER AND DOESN'T DIVORCE
THEM AND MY CONCERN IS THAT THE
REZONING DOES NOT KEEP THOSE
THINGS MARRIED TOGETHER AND SO
WE COULD BE REZONING THIS AND
NOT GET SOMETHING AND GET
SOMETHING THAT IS HOOKED UP TO
NATURAL GAS AND GET SOMETHING
THAT DOES NOT HAVE ANY SOLAR
PANELS ON IT AND GIVE SOMETHING
THAT DOES NOT CONSIDER
GEOTHERMAL AND GET SOMETHING
THAT IS NOT PASSIVE HOUSE
STANDARD AND GET SOMETHING THAT
IS NOT TIMBER MASS TIMBER
CONSTRUCTION.
>> I AM VERY UNCOMFORTABLE WITH
THAT AND I CANNOT SUPPORT THAT.
I'LL JUST BE REALLY CLEAR.
I CAN'T I CAN'T SUPPORT
REZONING THIS IN THAT CONTEXT
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, TO
COMMISSIONER WYTCHES POINT WHEN
YOU COMPARE IT TO KIND OF WHAT
IS AROUND THERE OR WHERE OR
WHAT OTHER DISTRICTS THIS WOULD
BE ALLOWED IN, YOU'VE GOT D1
WHICH I DON'T THINK YOU'RE
GOING TO ALSO CONVINCE ME THAT
THIS IS DAEWON OR YOU HAVE PUDI
AND THE BENEFIT OF DOING PVD IS
THAT THOSE THINGS ARE ALL
STIPULATED AND SPELLED VERY
CLEARLY BECAUSE THAT'S A MAKE
YOUR OWN ZONING DISTRICT.
>> SO WITHOUT THOSE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE LAND I
WON'T BE ABLE TO SUPPORT THIS.
>> SO I ALREADY MENTIONED BUT
PUDI IS WHAT I THINK IS YOUR
OPTION AT LEAST FOR ME IN THE
COMFORT OF OR OR SOMETHING ELSE
THAT MAY TIE THOSE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS TO THAT
SPACE TO THAT LAND.
>> THE OTHER THING IN TERMS
OF YOUR CONDITIONS AND THIS IS
ALSO WHAT I TYPICALLY DO WITH
UDS IS THERE YOU MADE A CASE
ABOUT THE 85 FOOT LIMITATION
WITHIN THE BUILDING CODE AND SO
MY QUESTION IS WHY A CONDITION
OF 100 HUNDRED FEET THAT WAS
OFFERED UP?
>> YEAH, SO THAT CONDITION IS
MOSTLY FOR PARAPETS ELEVATOR
ROOMS ABOVE ARE STAIRWELLS THAT
NEED TO ACCESS THE ROOF AREA
FOR THE FIRE CODE AND GETTING
TO THE SOLAR PANELS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT IT'S FOR.
IT'S GIVING US A LITTLE LEEWAY
ROOM FOR FOR THAT OK AND AGAIN
SO I IMAGINE WHAT SOME PEOPLE'S
WORST SCENARIO IS RIGHT.
>> LIKE MIGHT BE AND HOW WHAT
WE'RE SEEING ON A FLIGHT PLAN
DEVIATES FROM WHAT COULD WHAT
WOULD RUN WITH ONLY IN FOREVER
SO THE 15 FEET IS NOT HUGE.
>> THE IMPACTFUL BUT I WOULD
JUST SUGGEST THAT YOUR SHADE
STUDIES ARE NOT ARE GOING NOT
FOR ONE HUNDRED FOOT TALL
STRUCTURE, AN EIGHTY FIVE FOOT
TALL STRUCTURE.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S IN
MY MIND THAT I WANT TO MAKE
AWARE TO PEOPLE ALSO THE OPEN
SPACE THAT'S OFFERED AS A
CONDITION WHAT IS SHOWN ON THE
SITE PLAN THAT WE'RE SEEING IS
ABOUT TWICE WHAT IS IN THE
CONDITION WE'RE SEEING ABOUT
EIGHT NINE SQUARE FEET NINETY
ONE I THINK SQUARE FEET PER
UNIT AND WHAT'S IN THE
CONDITION 50.
SO I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT I
MEAN I DON'T KNOW THAT IF THAT
IS ALSO KIND OF WHAT THE
RATIONALE IS THERE.
I THINK IT'S A MATTER OF THE
DESIGN.
WE KEPT ADDING MORE OUTDOOR
SPACE SO INSTEAD OF BOTTOM
LIMIT THAT WE DIDN'T WANT TO GO
BELOW BUT WE'RE ALWAYS JUST
TRYING TO GO BEYOND THAT.
WE ALMOST GOT TO DOUBLE UP
WHICH IS GREAT WHICH IS ALSO IN
THE FLIGHT PLAN DOESN'T WORK
RIGHT.
>> WHICH IS ANOTHER REASON FOR
ME THAT IT'S DIFFICULT FOR ME
TO APPROVE THE FLIGHT PLAN
KNOWING THAT IT'S HINGING ON
SOME OTHER BODY BEYOND US.
>> JUST TO BE REAL CLEAR
BECAUSE IF IF THAT FLIGHT PLAN
DOESN'T WORK THEN AND WE DO THE
REASONING AT THE SAME TIME
AGAIN THAT'S LOCKED IN FOREVER.
>> SO THOSE ARE JUST A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT WE'RE IN IT.
I I DIDN'T GO THROUGH THE
PARKING CALCULATION BECAUSE
EFFECTIVELY WE DON'T REQUIRE
ANY PARKING PARKING MAXIMUMS.
AWESOME.
BUT I DON'T SO I DIDN'T SEE HOW
FAR OFF YOU WERE FROM WHAT THE
PARKING MAXIMUM WAS FOR ONE
EXPLANATION FOR THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENTS THAT
I WOULDN'T SAY ARE ADDED THAT
THEY'RE JUST DESIGNED
HOLISTICALLY INTO IT AND THAT
ACTUALLY THIS PROJECT FOR THE
FUNDING FOR THIS PROJECT IT
HELPS IT IF IT HAS MORE CAN
MORE SUSTAINABILITY INTO IT,
MORE GEOTHERMAL, MORE MORE
INSTALLATION, BETTER WINDOWS,
ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE
ACTUALLY HELPING THEM TO MAKE
THE PROJECT WORK FINANCIALLY,
WHICH IS A NEW MODEL FOR FOR US
AS ARCHITECTS WORKING ON IT.
>> BUT IT'S A REALLY GOOD ONE
FOR HOW EVERYTHING IS IN IT.
IT'S NOT JUST TACK ON THINGS
THAT IT'S ALL WORKING TOGETHER
AND IT CAN'T WORK WITHOUT EACH
OTHER.
SO EVERY COMPONENT IN IT JUST
HAS TO BE THERE TO TO MAKE THE
BUILDING WORK AND MAKE THE AND
IT MAKES THE FINANCING WORK FOR
THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT WHICH
IS GREAT.
>> THAT'S AWESOME.
THAT IS SUCH A THAT'S SO SUCH
GOOD NEWS FOR KIND OF WHAT IS
GOING FORWARD AND I DON'T IF
EVERYBODY AND YEAH I DON'T HAVE
THE EXPERTIZE TO CHECK EVERY
SINGLE ONE OF THOSE THINGS.
THERE'S SO MANY SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS IN THIS AND I THINK
THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE THEIR
LIKE FAVORITE ONE AND AND AND
SO THIS IS WHERE AMONG THE
REASONS WHY TOP SOME WAY THAT
ENSURES THAT SOMEBODY'S
FAVORITE THING HAPPENS EVEN IF
THIS AND SHAPED I DON'T
BUILDING THAT WE WERE SEEING I
DON'T KNOW I HOPE THAT'S NOT IN
IT ANYWAY IF THIS ONE DOESN'T
COME TO FRUITION LIKE WHAT
HAPPENS WHAT YOU KNOW WHAT IS
THE POSSIBILITY BECAUSE OUR
REZONING OF THIS IS NOT
CONDITIONAL ON REZONING OF THIS
IS FOR FOREVER UNTIL SOMEBODY
ELSE PETITIONS US TO REZONE IT.
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M THINKING.
SO THAT'S THAT'S SPECIFIC TO
THIS.
I WOULD JUST THE THINGS THAT I
THOUGHT WERE INTERESTING FROM
THIS PROJECT THAT I HADN'T
THOUGHT ABOUT FOR A WHILE IS
FIRST OF ALL THE PREMIUMS ARE
VIABLE IN SOME DISTRICTS AND I
HAD TO LOOK UP BECAUSE WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT THAT BUT
ONLY IN DISTRICTS AND THIS IS
THE ONLY PREMIUM THAT'S THAT
THAT IS POSSIBLE AND IN ORDER
TO DO THAT PREMIUM THEY HAVE TO
HAVE SOME MINIMAL SUSTAINABLE
QUALITY LIKE WE HAVE THAT TO
UNLOCK THE DOOR THEY'RE GOING I
WAY BEYOND THAT BUT I I HADN'T
I DIDN'T KNOW THAT OR I KNEW IT
BUT I NEVER THOUGHT OF IT THE
OTHER THING THAT MAY APPEAR IN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS IS
DID YOU NOTICE THE TABLE IN THE
STAFF REPORT ABOUT HOW MANY
OF THESE PROPERTIES THAT ARE
BEING COMBINED HE'S IN OUR
FORESE AND THIS IS A PROBLEM
THIS IS AN ONGOING PROBLEM IN
IN OUR FORESE AND AMONG THE
PROBLEMS IN OUR FORESE I MEAN
THE ONLY WAY THAT YOU CAN
ACTUALLY MEET THAT DENSITY IS
TO COMBINE LOCKS AND SO THAT
YOU WILL SEE THAT AGAIN
.
>> YOU WILL HEAR ABOUT THAT
AGAIN LATER.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
I WANT THIS I I WANT THIS TO BE
BUILT.
I WANT TO JUST MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE PREPARING OURSELVES LIKE
WE'VE GOT WE'RE THINKING ABOUT
THE FUTURE AND DOING THAT.
>> CAN I CAN I JUST ADD A NOTE
TO TO YOUR CONCERNS EXCUSE ME.
I UNDERSTAND YOUR CONCERNS WITH
THE REZONING AND HOW THAT RUNS
WITH THE PROPERTY AND THEN IF
FOR SOME REASON THIS THIS SITE
PLAN ACTUALLY FAILS TO COME TO
FRUITION, WHATEVER SITE PLAN
THEN IN THE FUTURE STILL HAS TO
COME IN FRONT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
RIGHT.
SO YOU STILL HAVE ROOM TO VOICE
THOSE CONCERNS
OF SUSTAINABILITY IF AND I FIND
THAT VERY DOUBTFUL IF THE SITE
PLAN IS NOT TO MOVE FORWARD AND
THE REZONING DOES AND I WOULD
JUST SAY YES AND NO BECAUSE
THIS IS THE REAL OPPORTUNITY TO
TO LOCK THAT IN.
>> THERE ARE LIMITATIONS ON
WHAT WE CAN ASK FOR WHEN IT'S A
IT WOULD BE BY RIGHT AT THAT
POINT IF WE AS MY UNDERSTANDING
AND SO SO AT THAT POINT TO IF
WE JUST TOOK ON THE ZONING
TONIGHT COUNCIL STILL APPROVES
THE REZONING BUT THE SITE PLANS
THAT ARE ENTIRELY SO THERE'S NO
MORE GOING BEFORE CITY COUNCIL
AND SO SO THIS IS THIS IT'S THE
REZONING THAT'S I I BELIEVE IN
THE CURRENT CONTEXT OUR PRIMARY
THING.
BUT YOU SHOULD CORRECT ME STAFF
IF I'M SPEAKING OF MISS BECAUSE
IT'S PAST MY BEDTIME ME TO YES
.
>> NOW SOME SORT OF PLAN MUST
ACCOMPANY A REZONING BUT IT IS
PROCEDURALLY POSSIBLE TO DO A
REZONE AREA PLAN CONCEPTUAL
PLAN AND THEN THE SITE WOULD BE
REZONED AND THEN THE THE FOLLOW
UP SITE PLAN FOR REDEVELOPMENT
WOULD THEN BE CONSIDERED BY
RIGHT.
WELL IT WOULD BE CONSIDERABLY
RIGHT AND OUR CURRENT
PROCEDURES HAVE SITE PLANS THAT
DO NOT ASSOCIATED WITH A
LEGISLATIVE DECISION LIKE A
REZONING TO BE APPROVED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
BUT TO BE CLEAR THIS ONE
BECAUSE IT'S ASSOCIATED WITH
THE LEGISLATIVE ACTION THIS
SITE PLAN WOULD PROGRESS TO THE
CITY COUNCIL WITH THIS
REZONING.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT IF IF IT WERE
REZONED SUCCESSFULLY ALL THE
WAY THROUGH THAT PROCESS, THEN
ANY PROJECT THAT MET THESE THE
CWA ARE REQUIREMENTS WHICH AS
YOU INDICATED DO NOT INCLUDE A
LOT OF THE ATTRIBUTES OF THIS
PROJECT THAT ARE APPEALING TO
YOU.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR YOU CAN YOU
CAN ALWAYS ASK BUT THAT
SUBSEQUENT PETITIONER CAN ALSO
SAY NO THANK YOU.
SO THAT'S SO EVERYBODY'S RIGHT
.
CAN I ASK THE PLANNING STAFF IS
THERE A CONDITION THAT CAN BE
APPLIED TO THE ZONING THAT
WOULD MAKE YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE
MOVING FORWARD?
I KNOW IT'S KIND OF A UNIQUE
REQUEST BUT JUST WAS CURIOUS I
THINK THAT I WANT TO SPEAK FOR
COMMISSIONER DESH.
I THINK THAT'S SORT OF THE
QUESTION I THINK WHAT I WOULD
SUGGEST IS IF IN THE CONTEXT
OF THE REZONING, IF THERE ARE
ISSUES THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FEELS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT TO ENSURE ANY
SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS
IF THIS IS HONESTLY WHAT THEY
ARE, THAT'S WHERE I GUESS I
WOULD REQUIRE I WOULD REQUEST
THE SPACE FOR STAFF TO WORK
WITH THIS PETITIONER TO CRAFT
LANGUAGE, MAKE SURE GIVE THE
PETITION THE OPPORTUNITY WHICH
IS DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO DO ON
THE SPOT HERE AND POTENTIALLY
AN AMENDED CONDITION STATEMENT
THAT ADDRESSES MORE OR ALL
OF THOSE THINGS.
>> I'M GOING TO ALSO BUT IN
JUST SPEAKING PROCEDURALLY WE
HAVE HAD CONDITIONAL REZONING.
IS THAT A CONDITION?
IS THAT THE PROPOSED PLAN IS
WHAT IS THE PERMITTED
DEVELOPMENT THAT HAS LONGEVITY
ISSUES BUT IN GENERAL OR COUNTY
IN GENERAL WE WILL CONSIDER ANY
CONDITION THAT REDUCES OR ADDS
MORE REQUIREMENT PARKING
MAXIMUMS BECAUSE THERE IS NOT
REDUCED HEIGHT LIMIT BECAUSE
THERE IS NON PROHIBITING A GAS
CONNECTION PROHIBITING A
CERTAIN USE BUT WE WOULD NOT
CONSIDER ANY CONDITION THAT
ALLOWED MORE THE COMMISSIONER
JUST A CLARIFICATION QUESTION
CAN WE PUT IN A CONDITION
THAT'S SOMETHING WE DON'T
ACTUALLY REGULATE IN THE UDC?
>> YOU CANNOT PUT IT IN THE
SORRY AND THE PETITIONER
INCLUDED CONDITION.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
ALREADY PART OF OUR UDC.
I MIGHT HAVE TO DOUBLE CHECK
WITH OUR ATTORNEY'S OFFICE BUT
I IF IT'S VOLUNTARILY OFFERED
AND IF IT'S ENFORCEABLE I THINK
IT MAY BE ACCEPTABLE GAVE A
THUMBS UP TO THAT ENFORCEABLE
THING BECAUSE SO MANY OF THE
THINGS THAT YOU'RE LISTING,
COMMISSIONER MILLS ARE NOT
THINGS WE CURRENTLY UGLY IN
ULYSSE.
>> LOOK, I THINK THAT MAYBE AS
AN EXAMPLE IF THE CONDITION
OF THE BUILDING MUST BE WHITE,
I THINK THAT THAT COULD BE THE
COLOR IS NOT KINVARA WITH
GEOTHERMAL AND I HOOKUP AND
SOLAR PANELS AND YOU KNOW,
THAT'S NOT IN OUR UDC BUT IT
IT'S ENFORCEABLE.
I CAN THINK IT'S ENFORCEABLE
BUT BEHAVIOR IS IT'S HARD TO
ENFORCE.
>> I THINK COMMISSIONER DISH SO
I JUST WANT TO ASK IS THIS A
WAY THIS ISN'T TECHNICALLY
CORRECT BUT TO DO VOLUNTARY
CONDITIONS OFFERED BY THE
PETITIONER OFFER US THE SAME
KIND OF SECURITY THAT
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS IN
APPLIED DO I BELIEVE YES.
THEY GET DOCUMENTED IN A
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS WHICH IS THE
WORST TITLE EVER AND THAT IS
INSERT THE PROPER LEGAL TERM
BUT THAT IS EXECUTE THAT IS
RECORDED IS EXECUTED.
>> IT IS DOCUMENTED.
IT IS MADE ENFORCEABLE
.
ANYBODY ELSE?
>> OH I GET ALONG WELL MAYBE
FROM FOLKS WE HAVEN'T HEARD
FROM BEFORE.
WE MOVE ON TO SECONDS SECOND
COMMISSIONER ANYTHING.
>> YEAH.
I'D LIKE TO SAY JUST GENERALLY
I THINK THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
PROJECT REALLY IMPRESSED BY
WHAT I'VE SEEN.
>> THE QUESTION I HAD
SPECIFICALLY WAS ON JOHN
MADRIGAL THE PROJECT ENGINEERS
COMMENTS ABOUT THE PROPOSED
ZONING NOT BEING APPROPRIATE
FOR EXISTING UTILITY
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WAS IN THE
OVERALL PACKAGE I IT SAID THAT
THERE WAS A TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
WATER MAIN THAT HAD TO BE
BASICALLY UPGRADED THE SKYPE.
SO COULD I JUST GET SOME
CLARIFICATIONS ON THAT?
>> EVERYTHING ELSE LOOKED TO BE
FINE.
THE FIRE MARSHAL SIGNED OFF AND
I JUST KIND OF LOOKED AT
EVERYTHING ELSE.
IT WAS ONLY THIS PARTICULAR
DIVISION, THE ENGINEERING AND
SO JUST WANTED A LITTLE BIT
OF CLARIFICATION.
>> WE STOOD THERE BUT THE
EXISTING WATER MAIN ON STIMPSON
AND STATE'S STREET IS PROPERLY
SIZED FOR THIS DENSITY
DEVELOPMENT.
THE WATER MAINS IN HENRY AND
WHITE ARE UNDERSIZED.
THEY ARE SIZED FOR OUR FACILITY
BUT THEY ARE UNDERSIZED FOR C1
IGA.
I THINK THAT IN THE EVOLUTION
OF THE REVIEWS AND THE
DOCUMENTATION THAT WAS
DOCUMENTED THAT WAS NOTED THE
PROJECT TEAM HAS AGREED AS IS
INCLUDED TO ELECTED TO NOT WAIT
UNTIL THE YEAR 2025 WHEN THE
CITY WILL BE UPSIZING.
>> THEY ARE GOING TO UPSIZE AS
PART OF THEIR PROJECT.
AND I THINK THAT ONCE THAT NEXT
REVIEW FROM ENGINEERING IS
COMPLETED THE DOCUMENTATION
WILL CATCH UP THAT THAT IS HOW
THAT COMMENT WILL BE RESOLVED.
>> GOT IT.
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK THANKS FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
>> JUST FASCHING MYSELF ON THE
UDC ON WHAT CONSTITUTES
REZONING.
>> SO FOR THE PURPOSE
OF ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING
SOUND STABLE, DESIRABLE
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE
TERRITORIAL LIMITS OF THE CITY
AND THE ZONING DISTRICTS AS
SHOWN ON THE ZONING MAP SHALL
NOT BE AMENDED EXCEPT TO
CORRECT AN ERROR BECAUSE OF A
CHANGE MUNICIPAL POLICY OR
BECAUSE OF CHANGING CONDITIONS
IN A PARTICULAR AREA OR IN THE
MUNICIPALITY GENERALLY.
AND I WOULD THINK THAT IT
ACTUALLY SATISFIES THE CHANGING
CONDITIONS OF OUR MUNICIPALITY
GENERALLY REGARDING THE ISSUES
THAT WE FACE IN SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY NOW THERE'S
OBVIOUSLY BEEN RAISED I THINK
VALID CONCERNS REGARDING THE
AFFORDABILITY COMPONENT OF THIS
.
YOU KNOW, I I THINK THE STARS
ARE COMPLICATED.
>> ME PERSONALLY WHEN WE WERE
LOOKING AT ACTUALLY THIS IS
MAYBE THIS IS KIND OF A SEGWAY
BUT LIKE ANY USE FOR EXAMPLE, I
THOUGHT WE COULD GET MORE READY
USE BUILT IF WE ACTUALLY
ALLOWED STARS.
>> RIGHT.
IF PEOPLE COULD ACTUALLY FIGURE
OUT A WAY AND BE FREE TO RENT
IT OUT.
>> YOU KNOW, IF IT'S AN TO YOU
IN THE BACK OR SOMETHING, WE WE
WERE PRETTY CAREFUL TO SAY, YOU
KNOW, THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
>> THERE IS THAT COMPONENT THE
HISTORY THAT EXISTS OF THIS
PARTICULAR PETITIONER AND I AM
READING THROUGH THE COMMENTS
AND TRYING TO JUST MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND.
>> BUT TO ME THE INTENT OF THE
REZONING UNDER THE UDC SEEMS TO
COMPLY WITH WHAT'S BEING
REQUESTED HERE.
>> SO I'M LOOKING AT C ONE ARE
VERY SPECIFICALLY TO SEE IF IT
COMPLIES ON PURPOSE STATEMENT
AND I APOLOGIZE IF I'M JUST
PREACHING TO THE CHOIR BECAUSE
YOU GUYS OBVIOUSLY I'LL READ
IT.
BUT AGAIN FOR THOSE LISTENING
IN IN INTENDED TO ENCOURAGE THE
ORDERLY CLUSTERING AND
PLACEMENT OF HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL AND COMPLEMENTARY
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE
CAMPUS BUSINESS DISTRICT.
>> SO TO ME I WAS JUST TRYING
TO YOU KNOW, YOU GUYS IN GOOD
CONTEXT IS A NEAR CAMPUS
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
>> I THINK IT EXPANDS IT AT THE
PERIPHERY AND I THINK THAT IS I
THINK THE ANSWER IS YES.
>> AND I'M REALLY LOOKING AT
THIS FROM THE LENS OF IS IT
PRESENT FUTURE NEEDS AND BEST
PROMOTING PUBLIC HEALTH,
SAFETY, MORALS, ORDER,
CONVENIENCE, PROSPERITY AND
GENERAL WELFARE.
>> AND I LIKE THIS PROJECT.
>> I'D LIKE TO SEE IT ADVANCE.
I ALSO HEAR THE CONCERNS THAT
ARE BEING VOICED ARE I JUST
BASED ON THE CONTEXT OF THE
REZONING REQUEST I THINK IT
PERSONALLY COMPLIES.
>> MY QUESTION IS MOSTLY ON THE
CLARIFICATION ACTUALLY AND AND
HOPEFULLY THAT GIVES ENOUGH
OF A THREAT FOR SOMEBODY ELSE
TO PULL FROM.
SO I WILL THAT THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE BEFORE
COMMISSIONER CLARK, DO YOU HAVE
ANY COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS OR OK
SO SHALL WE YOU'VE GOT A LIST.
YEAH.
I MEAN WE DON'T HAVE TO GO
THROUGH ALL MY THINGS.
I THINK THE THING I'M STILL
STRUGGLING WITH IS THIS SITE
THESE HOW MANY TEN TEN UNITS
ARE IN OUR FORESE WHICH WERE
ALL NONCONFORMING WE DON'T LIKE
WELL I DON'T LIKE OUR FORESE.
>> I'VE BEEN TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE CAN MOVE OUR FORCES
TO D ONE OR TWO AS SORT OF A
CITY WIDE APPROACH.
WE GET A DEVELOPER PETITIONER
WHO COMES IN UPGRADES THIRTY
EIGHT UNITS A NET OF ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY EIGHT NEW
UNITS IN OUR HOUSING CRISIS AND
WE SAY WE DON'T WANT BECAUSE TO
DO THE REZONING WE DECOUPLE THE
SUSTAINABILITY WHICH WE HAVE NO
ABILITY TO DO WITH OUR CURRENT
UDC.
SO WE'RE IN THIS CYCLE OF WE
WANT THINGS BUT WE HAVEN'T
CHANGED THE CODE TO GET THE
THINGS THAT WE WANT AND THEN
PEOPLE COME AND BRING THE
THINGS THAT WE WANT AND THEN WE
TELL THEM NO, THAT'S STILL NOT
GOING TO WORK.
SO FOR MY MY PART TONIGHT I DO
NOT WANT TO VOTE TO POSTPONE
THIS.
I WANT TO VOTE TO APPROVE THIS.
>> AND SO IF WE TAKE A VOTE TO
POSTPONE I'M GOING TO VOTE
AGAINST THAT AND I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE IS A MECHANISM FOR ME
OR ANYONE WHO MIGHT SUPPORT US
MOVING THIS FORWARD TO AMEND
THE MOTION SO THAT WE DO NOT
POSTPONE THIS.
I I JUST DON'T THINK IT IS I
THINK WE ARE ASKING FOR TOO
MUCH TO TRY TO COUPLE OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS TO THIS
ZONING WITHOUT ACTUALLY
CHANGING OUR ZONING CODE .
THE DEVELOPERS CAME AND BUILT
OR THE PETITIONERS CAME AND
PRESENTED SOMETHING THAT OUR
CODE HAS AND THEN THEY CHECKED
ALL THE BOXES THAT WE WANT
INCLUDING THE EXTRA FEE THAT
YOU ASKED FOR WHICH ON FRIDAY
WAS NOT THERE.
>> SO GOOD JOB ON DOING THAT.
SO I HEAR LIKE HEY LET'S DO
THIS, LET'S BUILD THIS BUT WE
JUST KEEP PUTTING ROADBLOCKS
SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> WE ARE PUTTING ROADBLOCKS.
IF WE RESOLVE THIS, A NEW
PETITION CAN COME AND NOT HAVE
ALL THESE SUSTAINABILITY THINGS
.
SO THEN WE'RE JUST LEFT WITH
OUR NONCONFORMING OUR FORCES
AND NOT THE HOUSING THAT WE
NEED.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO THIS
IN A MIDWESTERN NICE WAY BUT
CAN WE CAN WE ACTUALLY BE
HONEST ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING?
JUST THIS IS JUST KIND OF A
FRUSTRATING SORT OF CYCLE.
>> SO SO I KNOW CHAIR GET
BRANDELL OR STAFF IF THERE'S A
WAY TO AMEND AND IF YOU COULD
GIVE ME LANGUAGE AND I CAN
PROPOSE IT AND SEE IF SOMEONE
WANTS TO SECOND IT AND THEN WE
CAN DISCUSS THAT BUT I DO NOT
THINK WE SHOULD PROPOSE
POSTPONE THIS BECAUSE THE ZIBA
IS ALREADY A CONDITION AND IF
THAT GETS DENIED THE SITE PLAN
WON'T MOVE FORWARD.
>> I'M SEEING COMMISSIONER DO
YOU WANT A SPEAKER?
>> NO.
I MEAN WELL I ACTUALLY WANTED
TO BRING UP SOMETHING ELSE BUT
I MEAN I CAN RESPOND.
>> I MEAN LOOK, I'M I'M VERY
MUCH INTERESTED SORRY.
I'M VERY MUCH INTERESTED IN
FIGURING OUT PROCEDURAL WHAT WE
NEED TO DO TO ACCOMPLISH WHAT
WE'RE TRYING WHAT WHAT I THINK
IS BEFORE US.
I MEAN IF YOU HAVE MORE
COMMENTS I GUESS YOU CAN HAVE
THOSE.
>> BUT I WOULD LIKE TO RESPOND
TO YOUR SUGGESTION THAT WE'RE
NOT BEING HONEST ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH NOW
.
>> OK, I HAVE BEEN I'VE HAD A
LOT OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS AT THE TABLE AND I'VE
HEARD FROM MANY, MANY DIFFERENT
PEOPLE IN THE CITY THAT IT IS
NOT PREFERABLE FOR US TO
NEGOTIATE WITH A DEVELOPER AT
THE TABLE.
AND WHAT I HEARD WAS A
POSTPONEMENT WOULD BE, UH WHAT
I HEARD WAS THE THE CBA THE THE
CONDITIONAL UPON THE CBA
VARIANCE BEING GRANTED IS NOT A
PART OF THE PROPOSAL RIGHT NOW
.
>> SO WE WOULD HAVE TO ADD THAT
IF WE DIDN'T WANT TO POSTPONE.
BUT I ALSO HEARD IT'S SECOND IT
IS IN THERE.
>> OH IN THE SECOND ACT OK
RIGHT.
>> IT'S THE SECOND MOTION IS
SUBJECT TO THE ALSO CORRECTION
IS THAT RIGHT NOW WE THERE'S NO
MOTION TO POSTPONE IT.
>> WE HAVE BUT WE HAVE MOVED
THE FULL THREE MOTIONS.
>> OH I THOUGHT TO BE CLEAR TO
YOU IF YOU COULD JUST SO WE CAN
JUST VOTE IT THERE'S NO CHANGE
IF WE WANT TO POSTPONE IT
SOMEBODY NEEDS TO TELL YOU WELL
I WANT TO MAKE THAT DECISION SO
OK.
BUT IN ANY CASE I AM NOT WHAT I
AM HEARING IS THAT WE'VE HEARD
A LOT OF IDEAS FOR WHAT ELSE
THE PETITIONER MIGHT OFFER US
TO ENSURE THAT WE CAN HAVE
SUSTAINABILITY AND HOUSING AND
THAT THOSE THINGS SHOULD HAVE
FURTHER CONVERSATIONS AND THAT
NOBODY SHOULD BE ASKED TO
DECIDE ON THE SPOT BECAUSE
THESE NEED TO BE OFFERED.
IT IS IN OUR PLACE TO IMPOSE
THEM.
>> AND WHAT BUT THE THING THAT
I WANT TO ASK WHICH WE HAVEN'T
TALKED ABOUT IS THE SENTENCE
AND I WANT TO ASK THIS
OF STAFF.
IT'S THE SENTENCE IN THE REPORT
WHICH IS HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW
ON PAGE FIVE OF TWENTY FIVE MY
NOTES THE PROJECT INCREASES THE
DEVELOPMENT OF A BLOCK ABOUT
THREE TIMES OVER WHAT IS
CURRENTLY ALLOWED WHILE STAFF
FEEL INCREASES ARE ACCEPTABLE
IN ORDER TO MEET THE GOALS
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
EXCEEDING THEM IS NOT STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL PROVIDED
WITHOUT VARIANCE AND I JUST
WANTED TO ASK IS THERE ANY WAY
TO GET TO 311 AS THEY ARE WHICH
IS THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE PLUS
THE PEDESTRIAN PREMIUM?
DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER WAYS
OTHER THAN BUILD THIS BUILDING
WITHOUT PARKING, BUILD THIS
BUILDING WITHOUT A PARK?
IS THERE ANOTHER WAY ITS STAFF
UM, I THINK IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHERE THE ABOUT TWENTY FOUR
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET COME FROM
IN TERMS OF COMPLIANCE IT CAN
COME FROM THE TOP FLOOR CAN
COME FROM A MIDDLE FLOOR, IT
CAN COME FROM THE PARKING AREA
CAN THE BUILDING COULD BE MAYBE
NARROW A FOOT OR ALL AROUND
WHATEVER THE NUMBERS WORK OUT
BUT THERE'S PROBABLY A GREAT
NUMBER OF WAYS TO REDUCE THE
BUILDING BY A TOTAL OF ABOUT
TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET
.
CAN I JUST CLARIFY A FEW THINGS
?
SO WITH THE REDUCTION IT'S IF
WE WERE TO MEET THE REQUIRED
THREE HUNDRED ELEVEN PERCENT
IT'S EITHER ESSENTIALLY
SHRINKING THE BUILDING, LOSING
LOSING APARTMENTS WHICH WE
OBVIOUSLY DON'T WANT TO DO OR
IT WOULD BE LOSING THE PARKING
WHICH WE ALSO THINK IS NOT
FEASIBLE FOR THE PROJECT.
THE UNIQUE THING I DON'T THINK
WE POINTED OUT IN THE CODE IS
THAT WITHIN THE UDC IF THE
PARKING IS AT LEAST 50 PERCENT
UNDERGROUND IT DOES NOT
ACTUALLY COUNT TOWARDS THE
FIRE.
SO THAT'S THE UNIQUE SITUATION
.
WE CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE OF THE
HIGH WATER TABLE AND SO THAT'S
WHY WE FEEL WE HAVE THE
HARDSHIP TO ACTUALLY ASK THE
ZIBA FOR THE VARIANCE.
SO IT'S ONLY THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN IT BEING FIFTY PERCENT
OR MORE UNDERGROUND RATHER THAN
AT GREAT.
BUT DOES THAT GET YOU IF THAT
COMES COMPLETELY OUT OF THE
EQUATION IS STILL NOT ONE
HUNDRED THREE HUNDRED PERCENT
ALL RIGHT IT IS UNDER WITH THE
PREMIUMS WE MEET WE THEN MEET
THE FSA REQUIREMENTS AGAIN
EVERYBODY'S LOOKING AT EACH
OTHER THEN WE ACTUALLY WANT TO
SPEAK WITH MR ABRAMS.
>> I FEEL CONFUSED AND I THINK
MAYBE A MISUNDERSTANDING GOING
ON HERE.
SO JUST TO CLARIFY IS STAFF IS
THIS IS THE STAFF POSITION THAT
THE PROJECT AS PRESENTED TO US
THIS EVENING DOES OR DOES NOT
MEET SEE WHAT THEY ARE IT'S
CURRENTLY WITHIN THE 300
PERCENT WITH 8000 PREMIUM RIGHT
NOW IT'S TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET TO BEGIN.
SORRY ASSUMING IF IT GETS A
VARIANCE IF IT GETS THE
VARIANCE THEN IT WILL THEN THE
VARIANCE EFFECTIVELY CHANGES
THE STANDARD RATES
.
BUT IF WE IF WE WERE TO APPROVE
IT TODAY IT WOULD ALWAYS BE
WITH THE STIPULATION THAT THE
VARIANCE MUST BE IMPROVED.
>> RIGHT.
SO SO WHAT WE WOULD BE VOTING
ON TONIGHT WOULD MEET STAFF
LEVEL OF OF OF WHAT THEY'RE
ASKING FOR?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
SO WITH THE VARIANCE IT MEETS
THE THREE HUNDRED PERCENT YEAH
BUT YES THERE THING IS THEY
RECOMMEND APPROVAL WITHOUT
VARIANCE DID YOU NOT.
>> THAT IS MY STAFF
RECOMMENDATION THAT IS WHAT I
UNDERSTOOD YES.
BUT IN TERMS OF PROCEDURES IF
THE VARIANCE IS GRANTED MY
RECOMMENDATION IS SORT OF MOOT
.
>> THE VARIANCE IS IN HAND.
IT BY DEFINITION IT MEETS THE
CODE .
>> IT'S THE CODE BUT IT IS IT
EXCEEDS YEAH.
>> AND YOU DON'T YOU'RE
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT IS WHAT
YOU WROTE IN THE REPORT.
>> YEAH MY MY STAFF POSITION IS
MORE PRINCIPAL AND MORE
PHILOSOPHICAL.
>> I WILL ALWAYS I WILL DRAW
THAT LINE IN THE SAND FOR A
DISCRETIONARY APPROVAL AS AS
MEET THE STANDARDS BUT DON'T
EXCEED AND YOU WILL HAVE MY
SUPPORT AND THAT IS THE I AGREE
WITH A LOT OF ALL OF THE
STATEMENTS AT THE TABLE BUT FOR
CONSISTENCY IN APPLYING THE
CODE FOR BEING TREATING
EVERYONE UNIFORMLY IF SOMEONE
SAYS I WOULD LIKE TO REZONE I'M
CONSIDERING REZONING TO THE
SITE IT'S A GREAT AND ALSO
PROPOSED SITE PLAN THAT MEETS
THOSE STANDARDS WHATEVER THE
DISTRICT WOULD BE AND THEY'RE
WITH A DISCRETIONARY DECISION
SUCH AS REZONING THE STANDARDS
ARE DOES IT MEET THE GOALS
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT'S SOMEWHAT SUBJECTIVE.
THAT IS DISCRETIONARY AND SO AT
SOME POINT YOU NEED TO DRAW A
LINE IN THE SAND.
WHAT WHEN DOES IT MEAN WHEN
DOES IT NOT MEET?
>> WHEN IS IT TOO BIG?
WHEN IS IT TOO SMALL?
WHEN DOES IT FURTHER OUR GOALS?
>> WHEN DOES IT IMPEDE OUR
GOALS AND MY MY PRINCIPAL IS
MEETING US STANDARDS AS WRITTEN
NOW THERE'S PROCEDURES AND
THERE'S ZONING YOU CAN GET
VARIANCE AND THE VARIANCE
THAT'S WHAT A VARIANCE DOES.
IT CHANGES THE THE STANDARD FOR
THIS PARTICULAR SITE AND THAT'S
ALSO THAT'S AN ENTIRELY
SEPARATE BODY THEY COME TO.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN FINDINGS.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN APPROVAL
CRITERIA.
I CAN MAKE A RECOMMENDATION TO
THEM TO AND THEY DON'T HAVE TO
FOLLOW EITHER.
I MEAN I DIDN'T BUT LIKE I I AM
ONLY PROVIDING A
RECOMMENDATION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS A IN
THIS CASE THEY ARE RECOMMENDING
BODY TO THE PLANT.
I'M SORRY TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
I HAVE PROVIDED YOU WITH MY
ADVICE PROS AND CONS.
WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS?
WHAT ARE THE RAMIFICATIONS?
WHAT ARE THE WHAT IS THE
PRECEDENT SETTING?
>> BUT IN THE END YOU NEED IT
IS YOUR DETERMINATION OF THE
REZONING DOES IT MEET THE GOALS
OF THE MASTER PLAN?
HAVE THE CONDITIONS CHANGED IN
THE CITY AS COMMISSIONER WELL
ARTICULATED DOES THE SITE PLAN
IT IS A FACT THE SITE PLAN AS
DRAWN DOES NOT MEET THE
STANDARDS OF THE C ONE IN OUR
DISTRICT IF THEY RECEIVE A
VARIANCE IT DOES.
>> WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ABOUT
THE SITE PLAN AND THEN THE I
MEAN IT'S A LESSER BUT THE
VACATION WHAT IS YOUR
RECOMMENDATION TO HOW THE CITY
COUNCIL SHOULD ACT AND YOU ARE
FREE TO COME UP WITH THE SAME
CONCLUSION THAT I HAVE
RADICALLY DIFFERENT OR
MARGINALLY DIFFERENT JUST AS
THE CITY COUNCIL CAN TAKE YOUR
RECOMMENDATION CAN TAKE WHAT
MAY BE THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HAS DONE AND SAY AND
MY STAFF RECOMMENDATION AND SAY
WE HAVE COME TO A THIRD
CONCLUSION OR FOURTH CONCLUSION
AND THAT IS THE WAY THAT THE
PROCESS HAS BEEN SET UP AND
THAT THE WAY THE PROCESS IS
WORKED AND IT WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK THAT WAY.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, BEFORE I
MOVE TO POSTPONE, I WANT TO
ADDRESS SOMETHING THAT
COMMISSIONER RIGHTSIDE BECAUSE
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
HERE WHICH IS I DON'T LOVE THE
IDEA OF PUTTING LIKE ADDITIONAL
STIPULATIONS ON THINGS.
I THINK THAT WE NEED TO RETHINK
CLEARLY WHAT OUR ZONING IS
OVERALL AND NOT ON A BLOCK BY
BLOCK BASIS.
I THINK THAT YOU THAT WE MAY
DISAGREE THOUGH AND I THINK
THAT'S PART OF THE COMMUNITY
CONVERSATION THAT WE'RE HAVING
RIGHT NOW WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THERE IS
NOT A COMMUNITY CONSENSUS ON
WHETHER IT SHOULD BE D ONE OR C
ONE ARM OR D TWO OR SOMETHING
ELSE.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE UNTIL THAT
TIME I WANT THIS PROJECT TO GO
FORWARD.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME I THINK
THAT THERE'S A WE KNOW THE THAT
THE TWO THINGS THAT WERE AMONG
THE THINGS THAT WE'RE ASKING
OF THE CONSULTANT IN THIS IS
WOULD HELP US WAY HOUSING
SUSTAINABILITY LIKE WHERE THE
BALANCE IS BECAUSE WE CAN'T
HAVE IT ALL.
>> AND WHERE IS THE COMFORT FOR
BOTH YOU KNOW KIND OF HOW HOW
DO WE WHAT'S THE PRIORITIZE AND
LIKE HOW MUCH HOUSING AND IN
WHICH PLACES SO THAT'S WHY LIKE
I I'M WITH YOU I DON'T AN
HONESTLY I WOULD MUCH RATHER
HAVE THIS BE A NORMAL ZONE
RATHER THAN A WHOLE BUNCH
OF MAKE UP THINGS.
>> BUT IN THE MEANTIME THIS
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A COUPLE
OF PATHS FORWARD FOR MY MIND
WHICH IS THIS COULD BE THE
RIGHT ZONING WITH SOME POSSIBLE
IF OFFERED UP CHANGES OR
THERE'S ANOTHER KIND OF MAKE
YOUR OWN ZONING ORDINANCE
ZONING DISTRICT POTENTIAL.
>> BUT THAT'S SO THAT'S MY
DECISION NOW I AM GOING TO MOVE
TO WE'LL HAVE A CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE POSTPONEMENT IF
THAT'S LEFT.
BUT YOU CAN YOU CAN TALK BEFORE
MOVE AS WELL.
I JUST I WANTED TO ASK YOU
SPECIFICALLY A QUESTION OR JUST
SO EVERYBODY I GUESS BUT YOU
MIGHT BE WELL SUITED TO RESPOND
TO WHICH IS THAT IN IN
DELIBERATE MEETING OVER A
DESIRE TO SEE PUDI OR A C WHEN
ARE THE REZONING WITH
CONDITIONS OR IS IT JUST
STAYING OR FORESEE I GUESS ON
THE ONE HAND I'M WONDERING
ABOUT THE A WHAT AM I TRYING TO
SAY?
>> I THINK WHAT I'M TRYING TO
SAY IS THAT THE THE REZONING
PETITION IN FRONT OF US TO SEE
WHAT THEY ARE IS UNDOUBTEDLY NO
MATTER WHAT WOULD GET BUILT ARE
BETTER THAN WHAT EXISTS.
WOULD YOU AGREE
?
>> I THINK WHAT I'M STRUGGLING
WITH IS IT'S NOT LIKE WE
ACTUALLY GET MENU AND WE GET TO
ORDER FROM IT SO WE CAN WE CAN
KIND OF FEEL LIKE HERE'S AN
AMAZING PROJECT AND YEAH, IT'S
TRUE THAT THERE IS IS KIND
OF LIKE CATASTROPHIC WHAT-IF
SCENARIO WHERE WE REZONE THE
PROJECT FALLS THROUGH AND THEN
SOMETHING GETS BUILT THERE AND
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE.
IT WOULD ALWAYS BE BETTER THAN
WHAT IS THERE NOW IN TERMS
OF SORRY IN TERMS OF MEETING
VERY SPECIFIC GOALS FOR HOUSING
DENSITY, HOUSING AVAILABILITY,
A MIXED USE POTENTIALLY DIDN'T
INCLUDE THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS.
>> IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO
CONVINCE ME THAT THAT THAT
CREATING A NEW PATCH OF SEA ONE
ACRE MAKES SENSE HERE.
>> THE TWO HUNDRED UNITS
OF HOUSING IS BETTER THAN
THIRTY EIGHT.
RIGHT?
I AGREE BUT AT THE SAME AT THE
SAME TIME I DON'T KNOW THAT
WE'VE HAD THAT COMMUNITY
CONVERSATION AND I DON'T I
THINK WE WOULD HAVE DIFFERENT
PEOPLE.
I THINK THAT I WOULD IMAGINE
THAT SENTIMENT MAY BE DIFFERENT
IF THIS WERE NOT AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
I AM 99 PERCENT SURE THAT THEY
WOULD BE DIFFERENT IF THE AND
THAT'S WHY THAT'S WHY I'M
TRYING TO LIKE THIS RUNS WITH
THE LAND AND SO YEAH, IF IT
DOESN'T LOOK RIGHT NOW
NOTHING'S GOING TO GET BUILT
BECAUSE THEY'RE ALL
NONCONFORMING AND IF REASON
HONESTLY NOTHING WILL GET BUILT
IF THEY CAN'T CONFORM TO THAT
EXCEPT THEY COULD HAVE A
BUILDING THAT COMES IN AND
WOULD IT BE BETTER I KIND
OF WANT TO I DON'T NEED TO RUN
THE I DON'T KNOW I BECAUSE
BECAUSE ALSO THERE'S SO MANY
OTHER ELEMENTS THAT COULD
POSSIBLY BE PART OF THAT.
I THINK GOING I DON'T KNOW I'M
HAPPY WITH I'M NOT PUSHING JUST
TO BE CLEAR I'M NOT PUSHING
THIS TOWARDS A PUDI IF THAT'S
WHAT'S IN YOUR HEAD.
IF THIS IS IF IF IF WE KNOW
THAT IF IT'S TIED TO THIS SITE
PLAN I HAVE A LOT MORE
COMFORT TO BE HONEST.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT WAS BEFORE
US TONIGHT.
>> IT'S NOT NECESSARILY TIED TO
THE SITE PLAN AND SO YEAH I
THINK THERE'S A LOT OF BENEFITS
IN THIS.
>> I THINK THIS IS MOVING US IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION BUT I ALSO
THINK IT'S IT IT IS IN THE
CONTEXT OF OF AN OVERALL CHANGE
IN OUR PLACE AND DOING THIS ON
A ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS JUST
SEEMS LIKE INSTEAD WE SHOULD BE
RESIGNING WHOLE SWATHS AND
THAT'S WHAT MAKES ME FEEL A
LITTLE BIT UNCOMFORTABLE
REASONING WITH THESE CONDITIONS
TOWARDS SOMETHING I'M NOT SURE
WOULD BE THE ZONING THAT IF WE
WERE TO REZONE THAT ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD BE THE RIGHT
SOMETHING LIKE WE HAVEN'T HAD
THAT CONVERSATION AT ALL.
>> SO I DON'T DISAGREE.
I THINK WHAT I'M STRUGGLING
WITH IS THAT THIS HERE COMES A
PROJECT THAT IS KNOW BY ALL
ACCOUNTS AND BY EVERYBODY'S
WHAT THEY'VE SHARED THIS
EVENING LIKE AN INCREDIBLE
PROJECT AND ONE THAT KIND
OF CHECKS ALL THE THINGS THAT
WE ARE ALWAYS ASKING FOR IN THE
KINDS OF DEVELOPMENT HERE AND
YET WE'RE GOING TO KIND OF HOLD
FIRM ON THIS ONE.
>> IT'S HARD.
IT'S JUST IT JUST FEELS LIKE WE
KIND OF MOVE THE WHAT DOES THAT
YEAH.
>> WE MOVE THE GOALPOSTS IN A
WAY AND THERE ARE PROJECTS COME
AND I GUESS WE HAVE THAT
DISCRETION BECAUSE IT REQUIRES
THE REZONING AND THAT IS THIS
MOMENT WHEN WE CAN DO THAT.
>> BUT
THIS PROJECT IN A WAY
LIKE ALREADY MEETS ALL OF THE
THINGS WE WOULD TYPICALLY ASK
FOR AT THIS PIVOTAL MOMENT
WHERE WE CAN ASK FOR THINGS AND
IN SOME WAYS I FEEL LIKE WELL
WHAT'S GOING TO PUT THIS
PROJECT AT RISK?
IT MIGHT BE SOMETHING LIKE
PERPETUAL POSTPONEMENT.
>> SO I THINK I THINK THIS IS
YOU KNOW, AS I SAID I THINK
LAST TIME I WAS IN THE LAST
MEETING FOR ME IS IS ALWAYS
ABOUT TRADE OFFS.
NOTHING IS ALWAYS VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
AND SO I'M TRYING TO WEIGH THE
RISK TO THE PROJECT AND THE
MESSAGE THAT WE SEND BY MAKING
DEVELOPMENT HERE SO DIFFICULT
AND POSTPONING AGAINST YEAH.
THE RISK WE TAKE IN APPROVING
THE REZONING AND HAVING THIS
PROJECT NOT COME TO FRUITION
AND WHAT HAPPENED THERE IN ITS
PLACE.
SO I THINK THAT'S JUST WHERE MY
THINKING IS JUST TO BE
TRANSPARENT.
BUT I THINK AT THIS MOMENT I
WOULD NOT BE IN FAVOR
OF POSTPONEMENT.
>> DID YOU?
OH SURE.
I WAS HOPING TO ARTICULATE WHAT
I WAS HEARING FROM COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF LIKE
DOES THIS FEEL LIKE SPOT ZONING
LIKE THE WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
CONTINUITY OF THE OVERALL ZONE
KIND GOING DOWN, THAT'S OUR
FOCUS NOW I'M PULLING UP THE
TWO THOUSAND NINE LAND USE
PLAN.
>> I MEAN EVEN THOUGH THAT'S
FOURTEEN FIFTEEN YEARS AGO NOW
IT'S WHAT WE HAVE.
>> RIGHT.
SO WE'RE OBVIOUSLY IN THAT
PROCESS RIGHT NOW.
IT DOES CATEGORIZE IT AS S
MULTIFAMILY SO IN SOME ELEMENTS
OF IT LIKE A FIELD FEEL THE
MOMENTS OF THE CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DO TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT SUPPORT IT BUT I
JUST WANTED TO ARTICULATE THE
HESITATION OF SAYING NOW WE'VE
GOT ALL OF THIS AGAIN R TO A R
C BAMN SEE WHAT THEY ARE THAT'S
THAT'S WAY UP THERE.
>> SO SO I'M JUST LOOKING AT IT
FROM SO I JUST WANTED TO
ARTICULATE MAYBE THAT HESITANCY
IS WHY THAT MIGHT BE THERE AND
THE COUNTER I SUPPOSE THAT I
WOULD HAVE IS IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE TWO THOUSAND NINE LAND
USE PLAN AS IT CURRENTLY IS
RATIFIED S MULTIFAMILY IT WOULD
IT WOULD FIT WITH OUR CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO
ARTICULATE THAT POINT BUT I
ALSO I HEAR YOU LOUD AND CLEAR.
>> IT DOES FEEL LIKE ONE FOOT
DOWN ISLAND IN THE SEA BUT ALSO
I COMPLETELY HEAR THE WE CAN'T
KEEP MOVING AND IT FEELS LIKE
WE'RE MOVING GOALPOSTS BECAUSE
THIS IS MORE THAN WE COULD ASK
OF ANY PETITIONER RIGHT.
>> THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
PROJECT.
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT I PREFACED
IT WITH.
SO SO A BIT OF A I'M SOMEWHAT
TORN.
I DON'T HAVE I DON'T KNOW WHICH
WAY I LEAN, RIGHT?
OH SO BUT JUST WANTED TO
ARTICULATE THAT THANKS CLARK.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THANKS TO
COMMISSIONER LEE FOR
ARTICULATING WHAT I'M FINDING
DIFFICULT WITH US FAR BETTER
THAN I COULD HAVE.
WELL PROJECT AS I WAS FANTASTIC
I'M NOT SURE THE BENEFITS OF IT
ARE A FACTOR WITH THE REZONING
ASPECT.
THAT'S JUST KIND OF A BIG
QUESTION.
AGAIN, I WAS REALLY JUST
ARTICULATED IT FAR BETTER THAN
I COULD AND I JUST WANTED TO
KIND OF THANK YOU FOR THAT
COMMENT.
>> CAN I SAY SOMETHING REALLY
QUICK?
SO I THINK WE'RE KIND
OF TALKING ABOUT THIS AS SPOT
ZONING AND OUR APPROACH AS A
TEAM WAS NOT SPOT ZONING AND I
THOUGHT THAT THAT'S WHAT I
HEARD YOU WERE SAYING,
COMMISSIONER LEE, IN THE SENSE
THAT IT IS ADJACENT TO CAMPUS
PROGRAM THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IS ASKING FOR INCREASED
RESIDENTIAL AND IT'S A MIXED
USE SITE KIND OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS IS SAYING.
SO WE DIDN'T DO ONE FOR SEVERAL
REASONS THE THE BUILDING
MARSING WOULD HAVE BEEN TALLER.
IT WOULD HAVE CASTS A LARGER
SHADOW ON OUR NEIGHBORS AND WE
THOUGHT IT WASN'T RIGHT FOR
THIS AREA AND WE ALSO DIDN'T
INTO A POD BECAUSE WE WANTED TO
USE ABI WRIGHT ZONING TO TO FIT
INTO OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO WE DID LOOK AT OTHER ZONE
TYPES BUT IT DOES SEEM A LITTLE
BIT LIKE WE'RE KIND OF TALKING
ABOUT THESE CONDITIONS ONTO A
BY ZONING THAT DON'T
NECESSARILY APPLY TO THE UDC.
SO I DID JUST WANT TO SAY WE
DID LOOK AT OTHER ZONING TYPES.
WE THOUGHT THIS WAS THE BEST
AND IT ACTUALLY FITS INTO WHAT
POTENTIALLY COULD BE REZONED IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M NOT SPOT ZONING.
THAT WAS OUR APPROACH ANY OTHER
COMMENTS.
YEAH, I GUESS I JUST WANT TO
REITERATE THAT I'D ONLY LIKE
THIS TO BE REAL HOUSING AND
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
HOUSING AS WE'RE GOING ON HERE
AND THAT BY DOING THIS WE ARE
ESSENTIALLY MAKING IT POSSIBLE
FOR THEM TO HAVE NO LONG TERM
IN HERE.
>> SO JUST REALIZE THAT WE AS
AS IT AS WE HAVE IT RIGHT NOW
THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT
THERE'S LONG HOUSING AS PART
OF THIS WHICH WOULD NOT BE
ADDRESSING OUR HOUSING NEEDS.
SO FOR ME I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
SOME SORT OF ASSURANCE IN SOME
WAY, SHAPE OR FORM.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S HAS TO COME
FROM YOU CAN'T COME FROM US BUT
THAT'S I I I BELIEVE IN OUR
HOUSING NEED AND I REALLY WANT
THIS I WANT THIS PROJECT AND I
REALLY WANT IT TO ADDRESS IT IN
A GENUINE WAY.
SO I JUST WANT TO LIVE WITH
THAT.
>> DID YOU I DON'T KNOW THAT
WILL BE SUPPORTED BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE TO POSTPONE THIS
TO WHATEVER DATE CERTAIN IF
THAT MAKES SENSE.
>> I THINK WE'RE MOSTLY TALKING
ABOUT LANGUAGE CONDITIONS AND
HOPEFULLY WRAPPING UP SOME
STAFF COMMENTS.
>> SO I WOULD I WOULD SUGGEST
JUNE 21ST THAT'S A MONTH TO
GIVE US SOME.
>> SO YES, I WOULD RECOMMEND A
DATE SPECIFIC AND THAT WOULD BE
MY INITIAL RECOMMENDATION OF A
TIME FRAME THEN THE FIRST
MEETING IS NOT A POSSIBILITY.
UM, I'LL DO WHATEVER IS DESIRED
BUT YOU ALREADY HAVE A PRETTY
FULL AGENDA ON THE 5TH.
>> OK, AND I THINK THAT WOULD
BE KIND OF TIGHT JUST TO HAVE
ANY MEANINGFUL BACK AND FORTH
WITH THE PROJECT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO SO PROPOSING THAT SECOND OR
THAT SECOND PUBLIC HEARING IN
JUNE POSTPONEMENT TILL THAT OK
I WILL SECOND IT DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED MR DISTEND
COMMISSIONER.
>> RIGHT.
JUST A QUESTION OF STAFF.
THIS IS NOT THE LAST VOTE ON
THIS PROJECT SO IF THIS PARTY
WERE TO CHOOSE NOT TO POSTPONE
INFORMED BY THE DISCUSSION
HAPPENED THIS EVENING, COULD
STAFF CONTINUE THESE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
DEVELOPER SO THAT IT WOULD COME
TO CITY COUNCIL REFLECTING SOME
OF WHAT HAS BEEN LEARNED THIS
EVENING AND WHAT IS STAFF'S
WHAT MY STAFF'S PREFERENCE BE I
MAY NOT ADDRESS THE PREFERENCE
PART BUT YES, THE PROJECT IS
ALREADY GOING TOWARD TO THE
ZONING BOARD APPEALS ON NEXT
WEEK AND WHETHER I GUESS
WHETHER OR NOT IT'S POSTPONED I
THINK IN ABOUT A MONTH SAY FOUR
WEEKS TIME WE WILL HAVE WRAPPED
UP ALL THE OUTSTANDING
DEPARTMENTAL COMMENTS AND SO WE
WOULD MOVE TO SCHEDULE IT THEN
FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION AND
IT'S THE NORMAL COURSE
OF BUSINESS IN OUR
COVER LETTER, IF YOU WILL, TO
THE CITY COUNCIL.
>> WHAT WERE THE WHAT WAS
DISCUSSED AT WHAT WERE THE
OTHER CONCERNS OR WHAT WAS THE
DISCUSSION SUMMARIZED OF THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AND
THEN IF IF ANY WERE ADDRESSED,
HOW WERE THEY ADDRESSED?
THAT'S SORT OF THEIR NORMAL
PROCESS FOR GIVING A QUICK
UPDATE TO CITY COUNCIL.
WHAT WERE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CONCERNS AND HOW
THEY WERE ADDRESSED AND AS
THEY'RE OFTEN CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO FOLLOW ALONG
PROJECTS THAT THEY PROVIDE
THEIR OWN BACKGROUND FOR THOSE
THINGS IF IT'S POSTPONED THIS
IS MORE FORMALIZED BUT IF IT'S
NOT POSTPONED, IF THE MOTIONS
ON THE FLOOR OR ARE APPROVED
TONIGHT, IT IT'S A LITTLE LESS
FORMAL BUT THAT IS STILL THE
NORMAL COURSE OF BUSINESS.
>> MR APRON'S OH I'M SORRY WE
ACTUALLY COMMISSIONER WHICH WAS
OK I THINK I WANTED TO JUST SAY
ONE I DON'T SUPPORT THE
POSTPONEMENT I DON'T SUPPORT IT
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT THE
ENDPOINT OF THIS CONVERSATION.
IT DOES GO ON TO THE LEGISLATE
BODY AND WE DON'T DO SPOT
ZONING AT THIS TABLE.
WE ONLY MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS
BECAUSE CITY COUNCIL IS THE
PERSON OR THE BODY THAT
ACTUALLY DOES THE ZONING IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO I JUST DON'T THINK I TAKE
ALL THOSE THINGS AND THIS WILL
BE THE ONE TIME I AM NOT
MIDWESTERN NICE THERE STRAW MEN
.
>> COMMISSIONER EVANS, I WANTED
A CLARIFICATION ON THE LAST
QUESTION THE COMMISSIONER
DISCUSSED BUT IF WE APPROVE THE
MOTION ON THE TABLE AND DON'T
POSTPONE WE ARE APPROVING AS A
SPECIFIC SET OF CONDITIONS IN A
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS.
>> AND ARE YOU SUGGESTING THAT
NEW CONDITIONS COULD BE ADDED
TO THAT IN BETWEEN NOW AND CITY
COUNCIL THAT IS ENABLED THAT
THAT IS THAT CAN BE
ACCOMMODATED?
>> THAT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE
IT'S LIKE WRITTEN INTO OUR
MOTION BUT THEN THAT CAN BE
CHANGED.
>> BUT I WANT TO BE THE CITY
COUNCIL GET THEIR OWN MOTION.
YEAH, THAT COULD HAPPEN BUT I
JUST I JUST I WOULD URGE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO TAKE THE
ACTION THAT YOU FEEL IF YOU
FEEL THAT THOSE ARE NECESSARY
THOSE SHOULD BE IN THE BODY
THAT YOU ARE.
THE CITY COUNCIL'S ASKING FOR
YOUR ADVICE IF IF OR NOT
NECESSARY PASS IT AS IT IS IF
YOU FEEL STRONGLY THAT THOSE
SHOULD BE IN THERE, I I
WOULDN'T RECOMMEND THAT YOU
LEAVE IT TO ME TO BE THE
ARBITER OF THIS IS WHAT I THINK
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MATTER
MENTOR THIS IS WHAT I DON'T
THINK THEY MEANT
.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE SO FORGIVE
ME IF THIS IS KIND OF LIKE A
SILLY BASED QUESTION BUT I'M
CURIOUS JUST ON LIKE A
HYPOTHETICAL IF WE WERE TO
APPROVE AN LESEGO CITY THROUGH
COUNCIL I'M NOT SAYING IS A
LIKELY SCENARIO OR COULD HAPPEN
OR NOT BUT JUST THEORETICALLY
IF THE DEVELOPER WERE TO GET
APPROVAL THE RESULTING AND THEN
SELL IT DID WE LAND ON THE
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS ARE
TIED TO THE ZONING CHANGE SO
LIKE OR THEY COULD SELL THE
PROPERTY IN THEORY AND SOMEBODY
COULD BUY IT THEY'D HAVE THE
RIGHT ZONING WITHOUT THE
REQUIREMENTS, CORRECT?
>> YEAH.
THERE WOULD BE NO REQUIREMENTS
FOR SUSTAINABILITY.
THERE'D BE NO REQUIREMENTS FOR
ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
>> THERE'D BE NO REQUIREMENTS
FOR MASS TIMBER OR SOLAR AND
THAT'S IF COUNCIL WERE TO
APPROVE THE REZONING AS A
PRESENT.
>> YEAH.
>> SO THEN IT'S REALLY A PITY
IS WHAT'S REQUIRED TO TIE THOSE
COMMUNITY BENEFITS TO THE
REZONING, IS THAT CORRECT OR
UNLESS THEY OFFER UNLESS THEY
ARE OK THANK YOU.
THAT'S I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WAS LIKE KIND
OF SPOKEN IN PLAIN LANGUAGE.
>> JUST ANOTHER FACT.
JUST ANOTHER FACTOR I THINK
I'VE HEARD A LOT
OF COMMISSIONERS SAY RECOGNIZE
THIS IS NOT NECESSARILY WHAT
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> JUST AS A REMINDER THAT ALSO
HAS THE REQUIREMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT'S
GOING TO ADD UP PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT COST TO THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT IS BUT
I'M GOING TO GUESS IT WOULD BE
IN THE TWO AND A HALF TO FOUR
MILLION DOLLAR RANGE.
YEAH, I WASN'T NECESSARILY
SUGGESTING IT WAS I WAS
DISTINCTION.
>> YEAH, I KNOW AND I'VE HEARD
THAT BUT I JUST I JUST WANT TO
ADD THAT THAT'S ANOTHER REASON
WHY THIS PARTICULAR MIGHT NOT
WANT TO SEE THAT YOU
SPECIFICALLY HEARD BY RIGHT.
THAT HAS A REAL COST FACTOR FOR
DEVELOPERS ANY MORE DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION FOR COMMISSIONER
EVANS?
>> I'M STILL UNDECIDED OVER
HERE SO ONE THING THAT WOULD
HELP ME WOULD BE TO HEAR FROM
MY FELLOW COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE
IN FAVOR OF POSTPONEMENT WHAT
IT IS THEY'RE HOPING WILL
HAPPEN IN THE TIME BETWEEN NOW
AND JUNE 21ST.
>> THANKS, MR MILLS.
I AM IN THAT TIME I EXPECT THAT
WE'LL HEAR BACK FROM ZIBA ABOUT
WHETHER THAT STIPULATION ON THE
SAFE PLAN IS POSSIBLE BECAUSE
THIS THEN FACTORS INTO HOW OUR
STAFF WHETHER THAT VARIANCES IS
GRANTED BECAUSE THAT FACTORS
INTO IN SOME PART STAFF'S
RECOMMENDATION OVERALL.
THE OTHER THING IS THAT I WOULD
IMAGINE THAT THE DEVELOPER MAY
WELL I'M HOPING THAT A LOT
OF THE CONCERNS OF OTHER STAFF
IN THIS BUILDING WHO ARE
REVIEWING THIS ARE TIDIED UP
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THERE'S
SOME OUTSTANDING STAFF ELEMENTS
THAT WE DID ACTUALLY TALK VERY
MUCH ABOUT TONIGHT BUT LIKE
KNOWING THAT THAT'S ALL DONE,
THAT'S A LESSER CONCERN IF
THERE ARE ANY CHANGES THAT THE
PROPOSER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE TO
THE REZONING PETITION, I THINK
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I'M
INTERESTED IN SEEING THAT TOO.
>> SO NUMBER ONE AND NUMBER
THREE OF WHAT I GAVE ARE THE
KEY THINGS THAT I THINK WOULD
HAPPEN IN THAT TIME.
AND FOR ME THE NUMBER THREE
WHICH IS YOU THAT I'M SORRY
THEN THE NUMBER THREE IS
IMPORTANT IN THAT THERE'S SOME
SORT OF QUANTIFICATION, SOME
SORT OF SOMETHING THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE ACTUALLY LONG TERM
HOUSING AND AND MAYBE THIS IS
REALLY KIND OF A LARGER ISSUE
IN SOME WAYS ABOUT HOW WE ALLOW
THIS DISTRICT TO BE OK FOR
SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING ELSE
TO ADD TO OUR WORK TO DISCUSS I
DON'T KNOW.
>> BUT IT IT IS AN ISSUE FOR
FOR OR HOW WE EXPERIENCE
HOUSING IN THE CITY.
SO THAT'S WHAT I WOULD BE
LOOKING FOR IN THAT TIME.
>> COMMISSIONER, I'M ALSO GOING
TO SUPPORT POSTPONE BECAUSE I
WOULD LIKE TO HEAR BACK FROM
THE ZIBA BECAUSE IF A VARIANCE
ISN'T GRANTED THEY'RE GOING TO
BE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THE
SITE PLAN EITHER THE PARK'S
GOING TO HAVE TO GO OR THE CARS
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
SWIMMING OR YOU KNOW, I KNOW
THAT'S CATASTROPHIC AND I I I
WOULD LIKE THERE TO BE SPACE
FOR THE PETITIONER AND STAFF TO
CONSIDER WHAT FURTHER OFFERS
THE PETITIONER MIGHT MAKE AND I
DID HEAR THE DEVELOPER THE
ARCHITECTS FOR THE DEVELOPER
SAY THAT THE SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES IMPROVE THE FINANCIAL
VIABILITY OF THE PROJECT.
>> AND SO I AM FAIRLY CONFIDENT
THAT THEY'RE WILLING TO OFFER
THOSE.
BUT I WOULD IT'S IT'S A LOT
EASIER UNCOWED IF WHAT COMES
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
WHAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
INTENDS TO APPROVE AND ALSO
WHAT HAPPENS ON COUNCIL TO IS
PEOPLE IMAGINE THE BEST CASE
SCENARIO BUT YOU ALL ARE VERY
EXPERIENCED AND YOU'VE SEEN
THINGS NOT HAPPEN.
RIGHT.
AND SO YOU REMIND US NO YOU
HAVEN'T APPROVED X YOU'VE
APPROVED THE POSSIBLE OF X BUT
IT'S ALSO THE POSSIBILITY OF A
REALLY MESSY BUILDING THAT
DOESN'T HAVE ANY SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES AND THAT'S YOUR JOB IS
TO PROVIDE THAT FORESIGHT AND
THOUGHTFULNESS AND I CAN TRY TO
SAY THAT ON COUNCIL BUT IT
DOESN'T ALWAYS GET HEARD IN THE
MEETINGS OR YOU KNOW, FULL
OF STUFF.
AND SO I THINK HERE'S A GOOD
PLACE FOR US TO TO SEND A CLEAR
MESSAGE OF WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
SUPPORT AND I DON'T THINK THAT
A MONTH IS A CATASTROPHIC DELAY
AND I SO I DON'T I DON'T THINK
THAT WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
SCUTTLE THIS AT ALL AND AND I
THINK I'M I THINK THAT WE ARE
NOT TAKING THE ADVICE OF STAFF
IN THAT WE ARE STIPULATING TO
THE ZIBA VARIANCE AND I'D LIKE
TO HEAR STAFF WHEN THEY ADVISE
THAT WE OFFER THEM TIME TO
DISCUSS FURTHER FURTHER FURTHER
THINGS THAT THE PETITIONER
MIGHT LIKE TO INCLUDE IN THAT
THING.
>> SO I GUESS IT'S IT'S
COMPLICATED FOR ME.
I'M TRYING TO HEAR ALL THE
VOICES AT THE TABLE.
DID YOU WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
LIKE THANK YOU FOR READING MY
EYES FROM SO FAR AWAY SINCE I
PAST BUT YEAH I'M JUST I REALLY
AM HAVING A PROBLEM WITH OUR
PROCEDURE TONIGHT IS WHAT I'M
REALIZING BECAUSE IF I DON'T
THINK IT SHOULD HAVE COME TO
THE TABLE YET I THINK I THINK
THIS AN EXTRA MONTH DOESN'T
COST YOU ANYTHING BUT IMAGINE
IT COSTS YOU QUITE A BIT AND
AND SO I I WISH WE WOULD HAVE
APPROACHED THIS DIFFERENTLY.
I WISH WE WOULD HAVE DELAYED IT
IF IF ZIBA IS GOING TO BE THE
LINCHPIN THEN WE SHOULD HAVE
DELAYED IT PENDING THE CBA.
BUT WE OFTEN APPROVE THINGS
BASED ON ZIBA SO WE'RE JUST I
JUST DON'T LIKE WHAT THIS FEELS
LIKE.
IT'S JUST LIKE WE FINALLY HAVE
A PETITIONER WHO'S DOING WHAT
WE'RE ASKING WITHOUT US USING
THE TOOL OF THE PD TO EXTRACT
IT AND THIS PROCESS IS IT SEEMS
FRAUGHT WITH SO MANY MOVING
PARTS THAT IT CAN BE HARD TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO EXPECT AND
TO PLAN AT THE HERE ESPECIALLY
ON SOMETHING WE WANT.
BUT I DON'T MINDED THINGS WE
DON'T WANT TO IT YOU KNOW, IT'S
LIKE OH WE DON'T WANT THAT.
SO YOU'LL HAVE TO START ALL
OVER AND YOUR PROCESS.
BUT YEAH YEAH I WISH I WISH
THIS WOULD HAVE COME IF ZIBA IS
GOING TO BE THIS CONDITIONAL
PEACE BECAUSE THAT HITS THE
ISSUE OF FAILURE SINCE THE TWO
THINGS WERE THE NINETEEN SET
BACK IN THE FAILURE WE GOT THE
NINETEEN FEET SET BACK AGAIN
THANK YOU.
BUT THE FAILURE WE CAN'T GET
BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THIS PROCESS BECAUSE OF THE
WATERTABLE AND SO IT JUST FEELS
LIKE AN UNNECESSARY DELAY TO
POSTPONE IT AND THEN BRING IT
BACK AND THEN SEND IT FORWARD.
WERE YOU ALL PLANNING TO BREAK
GROUND THIS YEAR IF THE
APPROVALS WERE IN PLACE IT
WOULD NOT BE THIS YEAR.
NO, NO.
BECAUSE YOU WANT MANY OTHER
STEPS WE HAVE TO GO THROUGH AND
WE'VE ALREADY BEEN GOING
THROUGH MONTHS OF DELAYS SO
EVERY MONTH IS ANOTHER YEAH.
LIKE YOU ACTUALLY THREE MAYBE
IT'S REALLY ABOUT HERE.
IT'S MORE LIKE A THREE MONTH
DELAY THAT PUSHES EVERYTHING
ELSE BACK BECAUSE YOU HAD TO
GET TO THE NEXT SCHEDULE IN THE
NEXT SCHEDULE SO IT DOES IMPACT
EVERYTHING QUICK CONSIDERABLY
ESPECIALLY IF WE'RE PLANNING TO
DO THINGS LIKE GEOTHERMAL WHICH
NEED TO HAPPEN EARLIER.
WE NEED TO GET INTO THE GROUND
EARLIER THAN THE BUILDING
FOUNDATIONS DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
CAN I ASK FOR CLARIFICATION
FROM BRETT AND ALEXIS?
SO WHAT IF WE WERE TO GET TABLE
AT THIS MEETING?
>> WOULD IT BE THE INTENT THAT
WE WOULD ACTUALLY GO BEFORE
ZEEB BEFORE THEN WE MEET BACK
FOR PLAN COMMISSION BECAUSE MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS IT TYPICALLY
WE LIKE TO DO THAT.
WE FIRST GO TO PLANNING
PERMISSION RECEIVED A
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL AND THEN
GO TO ZIBA.
YOU'RE THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT'S BEEN ADVERTISED.
YOU ARE GOING TO THE ZIBA ON
MAY 24TH.
OK, THE THE ORDER OF OPERATIONS
IS NOT ESTABLISHED OR REQUIRED
BY CODE .
>> THE NORM IS PLANNING
COMMISSION ZEBA CITY COUNCIL
BUT THE ONLY REQUIRED ORDER
OF OPERATIONS IS CITY COUNCIL
LAST GOT IT.
JUST WANTED CLARIFICATION.
SO ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE ON
POSTPONEMENT?
>> MR KELLY?
I JUST DID WANT TO POINT OUT IT
IS IT IS A FACT THAT THERE'S A
TREMENDOUS CARRYING COST
OF HOLDING LAND AND PAYING FOR
CONSULTANTS CIVIL ARCHITECTURE
.
SO AND I CERTAINLY WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT PETITIONERS FEEL THAT
WE'RE LIKE WE'RE IN THIS
TOGETHER RIGHT.
WE'RE ALL TRYING TO EFFECTUATE
THIS TOGETHER.
AND SO AGAIN, I DO FEEL TORN
BECAUSE I THINK THE CORE ISSUE
I HEAR COMMISSIONER WISCH LOUD
AND CLEAR AND I THINK WE NEED A
YOU KNOW, WITH THE URGENCY
OF THE CLIMATE THAT WE HAVE, WE
SHOULD BE TRYING TO EFFECTUATE
THIS QUICKLY AND THAT WE SHOULD
BE WORKING TOGETHER TOWARDS
THIS.
AND I THINK THE CHALLENGE IS
JUST SIMPLY THAT ONCE A
REZONING OCCURS, ONCE YOU MOVE
FORWARD THAT WE HAVE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT IS THE CORRECT
ZONE AND THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
OF HESITATION AND THAT
HESITATION ALMOST MERITS AND
THAT'S THE TRADE OFF IN THE
BALANCE THAT I'M STRUGGLING TO
MAKE RIGHT NOW BECAUSE I DON'T
WANT YOU TO FEEL LIKE IT'S THIS
TABLE AGAINST THE PETITIONERS
BECAUSE AGAIN I WANT PEOPLE TO
RECOGNIZE I MEAN I WAS JUST
DOING SOME BACK IN THE NOW CAN
COS I MEAN IT IS EASILY GO INTO
TWENTY THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
IN ADDITIONAL COSTS JUST IN
MORTGAGE INTEREST ALONE.
RIGHT.
SO WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE
HOLDING COSTS IT'S SIGNIFICANT
AND SO I, I WOULD LIKE FOR US
TO ALSO ACT WITH URGENCY.
>> THE FACT THE ZIBA IS MAY
24TH THAT IT COULD HOPEFULLY
ALIGN I MEAN THAT MAKES ME WANT
TO SAY I DON'T CARE IF WE HAVE
A LONG AGENDA.
>> JUNE SIX I HERE AT JUNE SIX
I'D LIKE TO TRY AND BALANCE TO
THE CERTAINTY AND BE RESPECTFUL
OF THE FACT THERE ARE
TREMENDOUS COSTS AND THEY HAVE
COME TO THE TABLE WITH REALLY
AN EXCELLENT PROJECT AND THAT'S
WHAT I LED WITH.
I ALSO FEEL THAT THERE ARE
VALID CONCERNS ABOUT THE THE
LONGEVITY AND THE THE
PERMANENCE OF THIS REZONING
WHILE WE HAVE AN ANTIQUATED
2009 LAND USE PLAN AND FOR US
TO ASSUME WHAT THE THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WILL IMPROVE
AND THAT'S NOT TO SAY YOU KNOW,
ACTUALLY AS I'M LOOKING AT THE
CONTEXT ARE KIND OF A LOT
OF JUST DOTS WHEN YOU KIND
OF GO UP S INDUSTRIAL UNITS
THROUGHOUT.
SO IS THIS THE RIGHT ZONE?
THAT'S ULTIMATELY WHAT WE'RE
TASKED HERE WITH IS THE NATURE
OF SHORT TERM RENTALS
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS AREA?
>> THAT IS THE QUESTION THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO GRAPPLE WITH
AND I THINK AND IF WE AREN'T
YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT 100 AREN'T
SURE.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE SURE AND
RECOGNIZE THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
DO THIS TOGETHER WITH YOU IF
THIS GETS POSTPONED.
>> I ABSOLUTELY ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT WANT TO MAKE SURE THIS
GETS ON AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND
NOT HAVE TO CONTINUE TO WAIT.
>> AND SO JUST JUST TRYING TO
VOICE THAT LEVEL OF URGENCY AND
WE SHOULD BE TACKLING THIS WITH
OUR PRACTITIONERS NOT SAYING
YEAH, WE YOU KNOW, MAYBE IN A
LITTLE BIT SO I REALIZE THIS IS
A QUESTION FOR STAFF AND THEN I
ACTUALLY I WANT TO ASK
COMPETITION IS PROBABLY
SOMETHING HOW MANY VOTES DOES
IT TAKE FOR THE AMENDMENT TO
PASS TO AMEND THE MOTION TO
AMEND THE MOTION BE THE
MAJORITY OF VOTES BUT IT WOULD
TAKE SO THE MAJORITY COULD
MODIFY A MOTION BUT IT TAKES
SIX VOTES TO AFFIRMATIVELY PASS
ON A RECOMMENDATION TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
SO ANOTHER WAY TO SAY THAT YOU
COULD WITH FIVE VOTES YOU COULD
MODIFY THE MOTION TO STRIKE THE
REQUIREMENT THAT IT REQUIRES 19
FEET OR THAT IT BE CONDITIONED
UPON A STATUS BUT YOU WOULD
NEED SIX IF THAT FIVE VOTES WAS
THE FINAL VOTE ON THAT MOTION
AS MODIFIED, THAT WOULD BE A
DENIAL, A TECHNICAL DENIAL EVEN
DELAY DENIAL.
IT WOULD BE A DENIAL.
IT WOULD BE A DENHA NOW GOT IT.
>> OK, SO THIS IS I THINK IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT THAT SOME
OF THAT I'M NOT COMFORTABLE
WITH DESIGNING THIS RIGHT NOW
THE REASONING AS IS SO IF THIS
IS NOT POSTPONED RIGHT.
LIKE I'M GOING TO BE AT LEAST
ONE NO VOTE ON THE WHOLE THING
AND SO I KNOW THAT THERE'S A
COST ASSOCIATED WITH THIS AND I
WANT THIS TO HAPPEN.
AND SO MY QUESTION TO YOU AND I
DON'T I DON'T WE DON'T COUNT
VOTES AHEAD OF TIME.
>> OTHER PEOPLE ARE THINK YOU
CAN TRY TO READ THAT?
>> WHAT DO YOU PREFER DO YOU
PREFER US TO POSTPONE IT OR I'M
JUST CURIOUS NOT THAT WE WILL
BUT WE'RE RIGHT NOW DECIDING
ABOUT POSTPONEMENT.
SO DO YOU PREFER THAT YOU
POSTPONE IT OR DO YOU PREFER
THAT WE HAVE A VOTE TONIGHT?
>> I I WOULD PREFER THAT WE
VOTE TO APPROVE IT WITH A
CONDITION THAT THE ZIBA ALSO UH
HAS THEIR SAY ON IT AS WELL
WITH THAT ONE WITH THAT ONE
VARIANCE SO THE CONDITIONS HERE
THAT YOU'RE ALSO ASKING FOR OUR
ASSISTANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY
ON THAT SITE PLAYER ON THE
REZONING I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
TO NOTE HAVING HAVING MORE
HOUSING ON THAT SITE ALREADY
DOES CONTRIBUTE TO A BETTER
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT BECAUSE
LESS PEOPLE ARE TRAVELING
FURTHER DISTANCES, MORE PEOPLE
LIVE IN A DENSER AREA.
SO ONE ANY BUILDING OF ANY TYPE
THAT ALREADY ANY CHECKS THE
THAT ONE SUSTAINABILITY BOX I
WANT CLARIFICATION I GUESS ON
CONDITIONS TO ADJUST THAT WHERE
I HEARD THAT IT'S THE
CONDITIONS ARE TO REDUCE
SOMETHING AND NOT TO ADD SO
WE'VE ALREADY I MEAN WE'VE COME
TO THE TABLE WITH A LOT OF ADS
ON THE PROJECT THAT WE'RE
AIMING TO DO AND WE'VE WE'VE
TIED DEEP INTO THE PROJECT SO
THAT THEY DON'T GO AWAY AND
THEN WE'VE REDUCED WE DON'T
HAVE GAS GOING TO THE SITE.
WE HAVE NONE OF THAT AND OTHER
FACTORS I GUESS.
COULD YOU CLARIFY WHAT YOU MEAN
BY CONDITIONS TO REDUCE?
>> YEAH, SO AND THAT'S THE
REQUIREMENT I THINK FOR FOR
WHAT KIND OF CONDITIONS CAN BE
ADDED FROM MY PERSPECTIVE A
STAFF EXPLAIN THAT MORE CLEARLY
IF WHAT IS BUILT HERE IF WHAT
ULTIMATELY GETS BUILT ON THE
SITE IS WHAT WE'RE SEEING IN
THE SITE PLAN I'M HAPPY AS A
CLAM.
>> YEAH AWESOME.
>> AND SO BUT IF BUT BECAUSE WE
ARE TWO DIFFERENT ACTIONS
THERE'S THREE DIFFERENT ACTIONS
BUT THE REALLY TWO ACTIONS AND
THAT THEY THEY APPEAR TO BE
TIED TOGETHER.
THEY'RE NOT ACTUALLY TIED
TOGETHER RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S THE CONCERN THAT I HAVE.
>> AND SO SOMETHING THAT TIES
THEM TOGETHER SOLVES THAT
CONCERN IN MY MIND.
BUT BUT WHAT I HAVE TO VOTE ON
TONIGHT DOES NOT TIE THEM
TOGETHER AND SO THAT'S WHY I
CAN'T VOTE TONIGHT TO SUPPORT
THE REZONING COMPONENT OF THIS
BECAUSE LIKE AT LEAST THAT ONE
OF THE THREE MOTIONS I CAN'T
VOTE TO SUPPORT THAT ONE
TONIGHT BECAUSE BECAUSE THE
SECOND ACTION WHICH I AM
COMFORTABLE VOTING ON WHICH IS
CONTINGENT ON ZIBA ACTION LIKE
I'M COOL WITH THIS I PLAN SO
LONG ZIBA IS AND I'M FINE WITH
THE WITH THE VACATION.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S THE FIRST ONE
THAT'S ASSOCIATED WITH THE
REZONING BECAUSE IT'S NOT
ACTUALLY COUPLED TOGETHER THAT
I'M UNCOMFORT OK WITH IT.
>> SO I THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT
I THINK STEPH WAS SAYING BEFORE
ABOUT THE CONDITIONS THAT YOU
CAN OFFER, YOU CAN'T SAY YOU
SEE WHAT YOU CAN SAY BETTER
THAN I CAN BUT YOU CAN'T SAY
WE'RE GIVING OURSELVES MORE
FAAB BUT YOU CAN SAY RIGHT LIKE
MORE DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL BUT
INSTEAD YOU CAN SAY WE'RE
CONSTRAINING THIS SITE FOR THE
FUTURE TO TO SOMETHING THAT
BEING MORE EXPANSIVE BUT MORE
RESTRICTIVE ERM LIKE TYING
THEIR HANDS IS THAT YOU GUYS
CAN FINALLY SAY IT BETTER.
NO I SAID OK YEAH THAT'S
EXACTLY THE CONDITIONAL
STATEMENT ON A CONDITION A
CONDITIONAL OFFER A CONDITION
OFFER COULD TAKE A DISTRICT
THAT HAS A MAXIMUM OF R AND
FURTHER RESTRICT IT TO A LOWER
OFFER A CONDITION CANNOT TAKE A
DISTRICT THAT PROVIDES A 400
PERCENT FAILURE AND AFFECT A
FOUR HUNDRED AND FIFTY PERCENT
.
THEY ARE.
SO COMMISSIONER MILLS, WHAT
WHAT WHAT ARE YOU THEN IF WE
ACTUALLY THEN TIED IN THE SITE
PLAN APPROVAL WITH THE
CONDITIONAL REZONING BECAUSE WE
ARE COMFORTABLE DOING SO ALL
THE SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES
THAT YOU'RE PROPOSING THROUGH
THE PROJECT WOULD THEN BE TIED
IN WITH THE CONDITIONAL
REZONING?
FOR MY FIRST ACTIVE I AM
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT BUT I
ALSO WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
FROM STASS PERSPECTIVE THAT
MAKES SENSE IF AND I MEAN I'M
HAPPY TO GET SOMETHING ELSE AND
I ALSO HEARD SOME OTHER FOLKS
THAT WERE UNCOMFORTABLE WITH
OTHER ELEMENTS OF THIS SO PLAN
FOR THE REZONING POTENTIALLY SO
THAT SPEAKING FOR ME BUT STAFF
IS THAT A FEASIBLE THING?
IT'S A YES.
IT'S IT'S FEASIBLE I THAT WOULD
BE A MORE SPECIFIC DIRECTION
THAT I THINK STAFF COULD WORK
WITH THE PETITIONER AS THIS
ADVANCES.
BUT I I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THAT IS MOST LIKELY GOING TO
HAVE THE EFFECT OF LOCKING IN
THIS SITE SO THAT ONLY THIS
PROJECT CAN BE AND ANY CHANGE
TO IT IS GOING TO REQUIRE A
REZONING OR ANY TINY LITTLE
CHANGE TO ON SITE PLAN THAT
WOULD OTHERWISE BE
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT LIKE
TYPICALLY THAT'S EXACTLY THE
LANGUAGE THAT WE WOULD WE WOULD
REFERENCE WE WOULD SAY THAT ANY
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENTS CAN
BE MADE.
>> YEAH.
YOU RECENTLY HAD A PETITION
COME BACK TO YOUR TABLE THAT
HAD THAT LANGUAGE THEY WANTED
TO MODIFY SOMETHING THAT DIDN'T
MEET THAT TEST.
IT REQUIRES A REZONING.
SO ABSOLUTELY WE COULD DO THAT
THAT IS A MORE SPECIFIC
DIRECTION.
I WOULD GO SO FAR AS TO SAY
THAT THE STAFF WOULD BE
COMFORTABLE WORKING WITH THEM
AFTER THIS MEETING BEFORE THIS
PROGRESSIST A CITY COUNCIL TO
DO THAT.
>> BUT I JUST WANT TO NAME THAT
THAT IS THAT'S A PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT LOCKING DOWN
OF THIS SITE AND YOU HAVE TO
COME BACK NO MATTER WHAT IF IF
THINGS DON'T HAPPEN THE WAY YOU
WANT WITH ZIBA BECAUSE IF YOU
DO THAT THEN
NO MATTER WHAT
YOU'RE COMING BACK MAYBE EVEN
MORE THAN A MONTH RIGHT LIKE
THAT REQUIRES A WHOLE LOT MORE.
>> YEAH.
INSTEAD OF IT BEING I THINK
INSTEAD OF ALL IT'S SOMETHING
AS SIMPLE AS SAYING IT TIES TO
ELECTRIFICATION.
THIS SITE CAN ONLY HAVE
NO GAS CONNECTIONS CAN COME TO
ELECTRIFICATION.
THIS SITE IS THAT'S A CONDITION
NO GAS CONNECTIONS CAN COME TO
BECAUSE THEN THAT LEADS PEOPLE
THIS SITE IS THAT'S A CONDITION
TO USE YOU WOULD HAVE TO USE
BECAUSE THEN THAT LEADS PEOPLE
DIFFERENT YOU COULD USE
TO USE YOU WOULD HAVE TO USE
DIFFERENT ELEMENTS AND
DIFFERENT YOU COULD USE
DIFFERENT MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
DIFFERENT ELEMENTS AND
THAT ARE MORE EFFICIENT THAT
DIFFERENT MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
ARE NOT BURNING FOSSIL FUELS
THAT ARE MORE EFFICIENT THAT
BUT THE SIMPLE MOVE THAT ADDS
ARE NOT BURNING FOSSIL FUELS
THAT THAT CONDITION.
BUT THE SIMPLE MOVE THAT ADDS
SO NO SO IT WOULD REDUCE IT
THAT THAT CONDITION.
LIMIT SO YOU COULDN'T BRING
SO NO SO IT WOULD REDUCE IT
NATURAL GAS TO THE SITE?
LIMIT SO YOU COULDN'T BRING
>> I GO AHEAD.
NATURAL GAS TO THE SITE?
OH SORRY BECAUSE I PRESIDENT I
>> I GO AHEAD.
AM I LOOKING TO THE SIDE I JUST
OH SORRY BECAUSE I PRESIDENT I
PROCEDURALLY UNDERSTAND
AM I LOOKING TO THE SIDE I JUST
CORRECTLY YOU NEED SIX
PROCEDURALLY UNDERSTAND
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES IN ORDER FOR
CORRECTLY YOU NEED SIX
THIS TO MOVE TO CITY COUNCIL.
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES IN ORDER FOR
THERE ARE SEVEN OF US SITTING
THIS TO MOVE TO CITY COUNCIL.
UP HERE YOU CAN ONLY AFFORD ONE
THERE ARE SEVEN OF US SITTING
NOVA I HAVE A I'M JUST THIS IS
UP HERE YOU CAN ONLY AFFORD ONE
MAYBE TOTALLY INAPPROPRIATE.
NOVA I HAVE A I'M JUST THIS IS
I JUST FEEL LIKE IT'S GOING TO
MAYBE TOTALLY INAPPROPRIATE.
BE HARD TO GET THERE AND I
I JUST FEEL LIKE IT'S GOING TO
THINK INSTEAD OF HAVING IT
BE HARD TO GET THERE AND I
VOTED DOWN A POSTPONEMENT IS
THINK INSTEAD OF HAVING IT
PROBABLY PREFERABLE.
VOTED DOWN A POSTPONEMENT IS
WHAT HAPPENS IF IT GOES UP FOR
PROBABLY PREFERABLE.
A VOTE AND GETS VOTED DOWN THEN
WHAT HAPPENS IF IT GOES UP FOR
IT GOES ON TO CITY COUNCIL WITH
A VOTE AND GETS VOTED DOWN THEN
A RECOMMENDATION WITH A DENIAL
IT GOES ON TO CITY COUNCIL WITH
BUT RIGHT.
A RECOMMENDATION WITH A DENIAL
>> OK, BUT IT STILL GOES TO THE
BUT RIGHT.
CITY COUNCIL BUT IT DOES NOT GO
>> OK, BUT IT STILL GOES TO THE
TO CITY COUNCIL IN ANY IS OH
CITY COUNCIL BUT IT DOES NOT GO
I'M JUST LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS
TO CITY COUNCIL IN ANY IS OH
COMMISSIONER.
I'M JUST LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS
REALLY THOUGH I AM CURIOUS TO
COMMISSIONER.
HEAR WHAT COMMISSIONER DISH
REALLY THOUGH I AM CURIOUS TO
WOULD SAY, HOW CITY COUNCIL
HEAR WHAT COMMISSIONER DISH
WOULD YOU DISCUSSING OR PASSING
WOULD SAY, HOW CITY COUNCIL
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN DENIED
WOULD YOU DISCUSSING OR PASSING
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN DENIED
CAN I HAVE HEARD OK THANKS.
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> YEAH OK WE HAVE THIS
CAN I HAVE HEARD OK THANKS.
RECENTLY AND IT WAS BECAUSE
>> YEAH OK WE HAVE THIS
OF A RECUSAL RIGHT.
RECENTLY AND IT WAS BECAUSE
>> YOU KNOW JUST VERY RECENTLY
OF A RECUSAL RIGHT.
WE HAD NOT ENOUGH PEOPLE HERE
>> YOU KNOW JUST VERY RECENTLY
AND ONE COMMISSIONER HE WAS
WE HAD NOT ENOUGH PEOPLE HERE
RECUSED AND SO WE HAD A
AND ONE COMMISSIONER HE WAS
TECHNICAL DENIAL THAT WENT
RECUSED AND SO WE HAD A
FORWARD.
TECHNICAL DENIAL THAT WENT
RIGHT THAT THERE'S NO ACTUAL
FORWARD.
SUCH ANIMAL AS A TECHNICAL
RIGHT THAT THERE'S NO ACTUAL
DENIAL.
SUCH ANIMAL AS A TECHNICAL
>> I USE IT TO DESCRIBE WHEN
DENIAL.
ALL OF THE VOTES ARE ARE
>> I USE IT TO DESCRIBE WHEN
POSITIVE BUT IT DIDN'T MEET A
ALL OF THE VOTES ARE ARE
THRESHOLD.
POSITIVE BUT IT DIDN'T MEET A
>> IT DIDN'T MATTER MUCH.
THRESHOLD.
ALL RIGHT.
>> IT DIDN'T MATTER MUCH.
SO IT WAS IT IT IS RECORDED AS
ALL RIGHT.
A DENIAL BUT WE FEEL A LOT
SO IT WAS IT IT IS RECORDED AS
OF PEOPLE FEEL THAT IT'S A
A DENIAL BUT WE FEEL A LOT
DIFFERENT MESSAGE WHEN ALL
OF PEOPLE FEEL THAT IT'S A
OF THE PEOPLE VOTED IN FAVOR
DIFFERENT MESSAGE WHEN ALL
OF IT BUT IT DIDN'T PASS VERSUS
OF THE PEOPLE VOTED IN FAVOR
WHEN THERE WAS THE OPPORTUNITY
OF IT BUT IT DIDN'T PASS VERSUS
FOR UNANIMOUS POSITIVITY BUT
WHEN THERE WAS THE OPPORTUNITY
SOME PEOPLE VOTED VOTED NO.
FOR UNANIMOUS POSITIVITY BUT
SO IT'S JUST MORE OF A IT'S A
SOME PEOPLE VOTED VOTED NO.
VIBE THAN AN ACTUAL PROCEDURAL
SO IT'S JUST MORE OF A IT'S A
ASPECT.
VIBE THAN AN ACTUAL PROCEDURAL
>> THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING.
ASPECT.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER.
>> THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING.
YEAH.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER.
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH I'LL LET ME
YEAH.
JUST BE PERFECTLY CLEAR I WOULD
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH I'LL LET ME
BE AGAINST POSTPONEMENT AND I
JUST BE PERFECTLY CLEAR I WOULD
WOULD VOTE IN FAVOR OF THIS
BE AGAINST POSTPONEMENT AND I
PROJECT.
WOULD VOTE IN FAVOR OF THIS
>> WE ARE TALKING YOU KNOW THE
PROJECT.
MORE I'M I FEEL THAT WE HAVE
>> WE ARE TALKING YOU KNOW THE
GIVEN DUE DILIGENCE.
MORE I'M I FEEL THAT WE HAVE
I THINK WE HAVE HAD VERY
GIVEN DUE DILIGENCE.
THOUGHTFUL DISCUSSIONS.
I THINK WE HAVE HAD VERY
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THIS
THOUGHTFUL DISCUSSIONS.
PROJECT HAPPEN.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THIS
>> THE CARRYING COSTS ARE VERY
PROJECT HAPPEN.
DIFFICULT THE MORE I THINK
>> THE CARRYING COSTS ARE VERY
ABOUT IT, WOULD WE BE
DIFFICULT THE MORE I THINK
COMFORTABLE WOULD I BE
ABOUT IT, WOULD WE BE
COMFORTABLE WITH THE CITY?
COMFORTABLE WOULD I BE
WOULD IT BE IN THE BEST
COMFORTABLE WITH THE CITY?
INTERESTS OF THE CITY TO SEE
WOULD IT BE IN THE BEST
GREATER INTENSITY OF USE IN
INTERESTS OF THE CITY TO SEE
THIS PARTICULAR SITE?
GREATER INTENSITY OF USE IN
>> I THINK THE ANSWER IS YES.
THIS PARTICULAR SITE?
>> SHORT TERM RENTALS AGAIN
>> I THINK THE ANSWER IS YES.
COMPLEX QUESTION WOULD WE HAVE
>> SHORT TERM RENTALS AGAIN
WE HAVE LONG SAID I THINK WE
COMPLEX QUESTION WOULD WE HAVE
WANT AFFORDABILITY AND
WE HAVE LONG SAID I THINK WE
SUSTAINABILITY.
WANT AFFORDABILITY AND
>> THOSE ARE TWO HALLMARKS
SUSTAINABILITY.
OF WHAT WE ASK FOR.
>> THOSE ARE TWO HALLMARKS
>> WE HAVE ENGAGED CITIZENS
OF WHAT WE ASK FOR.
HERE AND I THANK YOU ALL, BY
>> WE HAVE ENGAGED CITIZENS
THE WAY FOR SITTING HERE
HERE AND I THANK YOU ALL, BY
LISTENING TO AGAIN US
THE WAY FOR SITTING HERE
DELIBERATE AND IT'S BECAUSE WE
LISTENING TO AGAIN US
DO CARE WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
DELIBERATE AND IT'S BECAUSE WE
THAT WE'RE MAKING THE BEST
DO CARE WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
DECISION POSSIBLE IN THE BEST
THAT WE'RE MAKING THE BEST
INTEREST OF THE CITY.
DECISION POSSIBLE IN THE BEST
>> SO JUST ON OF TRANSPARENCY
INTEREST OF THE CITY.
AND LIKE COMMISSIONER WISCH
>> SO JUST ON OF TRANSPARENCY
SAID SAYING MIDWESTERN NICE NO
AND LIKE COMMISSIONER WISCH
LONGER KIND OF THING, LET ME
SAID SAYING MIDWESTERN NICE NO
JUST BE PERFECTLY CLEAR ABOUT,
LONGER KIND OF THING, LET ME
YOU KNOW, THE WAY I'M GOING TO
JUST BE PERFECTLY CLEAR ABOUT,
VOTE WHICH IS I WOULD BE
YOU KNOW, THE WAY I'M GOING TO
AGAINST POSTPONEMENT AND I
VOTE WHICH IS I WOULD BE
WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF RECOMMEND
AGAINST POSTPONEMENT AND I
THIS FOR APPROVAL.
WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF RECOMMEND
>> SO LET ME JUST MAKE THAT
THIS FOR APPROVAL.
UNEQUIVOCAL.
>> SO LET ME JUST MAKE THAT
OH, SORRY, COMMISSIONER.
UNEQUIVOCAL.
>> I JUST HAVE A QUESTION FOR
OH, SORRY, COMMISSIONER.
MR. LEONARD SO DOES A
>> I JUST HAVE A QUESTION FOR
POSTPONEMENT REQUIRE SIX
MR. LEONARD SO DOES A
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OR A MAJORITY
POSTPONEMENT REQUIRE SIX
OF THE MEMBERS VOTING A
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OR A MAJORITY
POSTPONEMENT WOULD BE A
OF THE MEMBERS VOTING A
MAJORITY OF MEMBERS VOTING
POSTPONEMENT WOULD BE A
BECAUSE IT'S NOT SO IT'S JUST
MAJORITY OF MEMBERS VOTING
SOMETHING THAT'S ACCEPTABLE
BECAUSE IT'S NOT SO IT'S JUST
MAJORITY.
SOMETHING THAT'S ACCEPTABLE
SO IF FOR PLANNING
MAJORITY.
COMMISSIONERS VOTE IN FAVOR
SO IF FOR PLANNING
OF POSTPONEMENT, IF YOU WERE
COMMISSIONERS VOTE IN FAVOR
WHIPPING VOTES THE POSTPONEMENT
OF POSTPONEMENT, IF YOU WERE
WILL HAPPEN AND AND THEN WE
WHIPPING VOTES THE POSTPONEMENT
WILL SEE THEM ON THE 21ST YOU
WILL HAPPEN AND AND THEN WE
TWENTY FOUR IF FOR SIMPLE
WILL SEE THEM ON THE 21ST YOU
MAJORITY COMMISSIONER DISH
TWENTY FOUR IF FOR SIMPLE
SORRY TO BE TALKING SO MUCH SO
MAJORITY COMMISSIONER DISH
I.
SORRY TO BE TALKING SO MUCH SO
>> I DO AGREE THAT IT IS
I.
DELIGHTFUL TO SEE
>> I DO AGREE THAT IT IS
SUSTAINABILITY AND RESIDENTIAL
DELIGHTFUL TO SEE
DEVELOPMENT YOU BROUGHT UP
SUSTAINABILITY AND RESIDENTIAL
EDDIE USE COMMISSIONER LEE AND
DEVELOPMENT YOU BROUGHT UP
WE DID HAVE A DISCUSSION A
EDDIE USE COMMISSIONER LEE AND
NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS HAD A
WE DID HAVE A DISCUSSION A
DISCUSSION.
NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS HAD A
>> THIS BODY PROBABLY HAD A
DISCUSSION.
DISCUSSION BECAUSE YOU GUYS
>> THIS BODY PROBABLY HAD A
DISCUSSED IT WHEN I WAS YET
DISCUSSION BECAUSE YOU GUYS
HERE AND THE MARKET SHARES FOR
DISCUSSED IT WHEN I WAS YET
STARTERS BECAUSE YOU CAN MAKE A
HERE AND THE MARKET SHARES FOR
LOT MORE MONEY WITH THEM AND I
STARTERS BECAUSE YOU CAN MAKE A
I COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THE
LOT MORE MONEY WITH THEM AND I
IDEA THAT SOME PORTION OF THIS
I COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THE
PROJECT MIGHT BE USED STARS AS
IDEA THAT SOME PORTION OF THIS
IT GETS ITSELF ON ITS FEET AND
PROJECT MIGHT BE USED STARS AS
THOSE TRANSITION AWAY
IT GETS ITSELF ON ITS FEET AND
COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THAT.
THOSE TRANSITION AWAY
>> BUT AGAIN, LET'S TAKE THE
COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THAT.
SCENARIO WHERE THIS PROJECT
>> BUT AGAIN, LET'S TAKE THE
DOESN'T SURVIVE AND WE DO
SCENARIO WHERE THIS PROJECT
ATTACH THE SUSTAINABILITY WE DO
DOESN'T SURVIVE AND WE DO
RECEIVE A SUSTAINABILITY OFFER
ATTACH THE SUSTAINABILITY WE DO
FROM YOU WHICH IS WONDERFUL.
RECEIVE A SUSTAINABILITY OFFER
>> BUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
FROM YOU WHICH IS WONDERFUL.
THE FUNDING IS NOT FULLY
>> BUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
SECURED FOR THIS PROJECT YET
THE FUNDING IS NOT FULLY
AND LET'S JUST SAY IT DOESN'T
SECURED FOR THIS PROJECT YET
HAPPEN AND SO IT MOVES ON AND
AND LET'S JUST SAY IT DOESN'T
THAT MEANS WE HAVE JUST
HAPPEN AND SO IT MOVES ON AND
APPROVED SOMETHING THAT COULD
THAT MEANS WE HAVE JUST
HAVE TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN
APPROVED SOMETHING THAT COULD
STARS IN IT FOREVER BECAUSE
HAVE TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN
THAT'S WHAT THIS ZONING ALLOWS
STARS IN IT FOREVER BECAUSE
AND OUR DECISION ON WHY WE
THAT'S WHAT THIS ZONING ALLOWS
WOULDN'T ALLOW IT WITH AIDS
AND OUR DECISION ON WHY WE
BECAUSE COUNCIL'S POLICY INTENT
WOULDN'T ALLOW IT WITH AIDS
IN PERMITTING A TO USE WAS TO
BECAUSE COUNCIL'S POLICY INTENT
CREATE MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
IN PERMITTING A TO USE WAS TO
PEOPLE TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR NOT
CREATE MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
TO STAY FOR A MONTH OR A
PEOPLE TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR NOT
WEEKEND BUT TO LIVE IN ANN
TO STAY FOR A MONTH OR A
ARBOR.
WEEKEND BUT TO LIVE IN ANN
>> AND SO I JUST WANT TO BE
ARBOR.
REALLY CLEAR THAT I DON'T SEE
>> AND SO I JUST WANT TO BE
THE SEA WHEN THEY ARE ZONING AS
REALLY CLEAR THAT I DON'T SEE
PREFERABLE TO WHAT IS THEIR IF
THE SEA WHEN THEY ARE ZONING AS
IT'S NOT A SUSTAINABLE PROJECT
PREFERABLE TO WHAT IS THEIR IF
AND IF IF I'M NOT OPENING THE
IT'S NOT A SUSTAINABLE PROJECT
DOOR WIDE FOR A WHOLE HUGE
AND IF IF I'M NOT OPENING THE
BUILDING FULL OF OF SINGLE
DOOR WIDE FOR A WHOLE HUGE
TERMINAL THEN I'M NOT TALKING
BUILDING FULL OF OF SINGLE
ABOUT YOU RIGHT NOW TALKING
TERMINAL THEN I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT ANOTHER THING AND THAT IS
ABOUT YOU RIGHT NOW TALKING
WHAT WE ARE DOING.
ABOUT ANOTHER THING AND THAT IS
AND SO I HAVE BEEN REMINDED IN
WHAT WE ARE DOING.
THE PAST THAT THE REASON WHY
AND SO I HAVE BEEN REMINDED IN
STARS AREN'T APPROPRIATE FOR
THE PAST THAT THE REASON WHY
EIGHT YEARS SO THAT IT
STARS AREN'T APPROPRIATE FOR
CONFLICTS WITH COUNCIL'S POLICY
EIGHT YEARS SO THAT IT
GOAL AND I FEEL LIKE I DON'T
CONFLICTS WITH COUNCIL'S POLICY
THINK IT WE'RE ALL THINKING
GOAL AND I FEEL LIKE I DON'T
ENTIRELY CLEARLY ABOUT OUR
THINK IT WE'RE ALL THINKING
POLICY GOAL RIGHT NOW WITH
ENTIRELY CLEARLY ABOUT OUR
RESPECT TO WHAT RESIDENTIAL
POLICY GOAL RIGHT NOW WITH
MEANS.
RESPECT TO WHAT RESIDENTIAL
SO I AM GOING TO SUPPORT
MEANS.
POSTPONEMENT AND I I AM I'M
SO I AM GOING TO SUPPORT
SORRY ABOUT THE COST TO YOU.
POSTPONEMENT AND I I AM I'M
>> I AM SORRY ABOUT THAT.
SORRY ABOUT THE COST TO YOU.
>> BUT I WOULD HAVE TO BELIEVE
>> I AM SORRY ABOUT THAT.
THAT THE ZONING WOULD BE BETTER
>> BUT I WOULD HAVE TO BELIEVE
NO MATTER WHAT AND I CAN'T SEE
THAT THE ZONING WOULD BE BETTER
THAT
.
>> ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE THEN
ON POSTPONEMENT
?
>> SO THE MOTION IS STILL THE
POSTPONED TO JUNE 21ST.
UH, COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
YES,
COMMISSIONER EVANS NOW
COMMISSIONER DISH.
>> YES.
OR COMMISSIONER LEE NO.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH NO OF FOUR VOTES THE
AFFIRMATIVE THE ITEM IS
POSTPONED TO THE JUNE 21ST
MEETING.
THANK YOU.
I THINK I THINK WE ALL REALLY
WANT THIS TO HAPPEN TO PEOPLE
SO WE'RE GOING TO SEE HOW WE
CAN GET THERE.
>> WHY DON'T WE TAKE A SHORT
BREAK?
SO WE'VE BEEN SITTING HERE FOR
A LONG TIME SO LET'S JUST LET'S
JUST SAY FIVE MINUTES SO THAT
WE DON'T GET HOME TOO LATE
ALREADY
WE ARE ON ITEM NINE
FROM AND WE ARE ON ITEM NINE B
WHICH IS THE ANNEXATIONS FOR
ANIBA TOWNSHIP.
THIS IS HANG ON A SECOND.
YOU GOT MY THING HERE.
>> CITY BANABA PETITION STATE
OF MICHIGAN TO APPROVE THE
ANNEXATION OF A NUMBER
OF TOWNSHIP ISLANDS PARCELS IN
HANOVER TOWNSHIP.
THE DIRECTOR OF THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN'S LICENSING AND
REGULATORY AFFAIRS LAURER
DEPARTMENT RECENTLY APPROVED
THE ANNEXATION THE FOLLOWING
ELEVEN PARCELS TO 775 NEWPORT,
RHODE 277 NEWPORT RHODE 246 SIX
NEWPORT RHODE TWO THREE ONE
NEWPORT RHODE TWO THREE FIVE
FOR NEWPORT RHODE 208 NEWPORT
NEWPORT RHODE ONE 375 BERG ROAD
FOURTEEN 29 BYRD ROAD TWO ONE
FOR VICTORIA CIRCLE TWO ONE ONE
EIGHT VICTORIA CIRCLE TWO ONE
TWO SIX VICTORIA CIRCLE THE
CITY OF HANOVER IS NOW
INITIATED THE REZONING OF THESE
PARCELS TO R ONE SINGLE FAMILY
DETACHED AFTER THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING THIS
REZONING PETITION WILL BE SENT
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL STAFF RECOMMENDATION.
>> HIS APPROVAL.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY KIND OF WE
HAVE A VERY BRIEF STAFF PORT
CITY COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION IN 2011 DIRECTING
STAFF TO BEGIN A PROCESS
OF ANNEXING TOWNSHIP ISLANDS
WITHIN THE CITY'S ULTIMATE
SERVICE BOUNDARY CONSISTENT
WITH BOUNDARY AGREEMENTS
REACHED WITH AN IMBECILE AND
PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIPS,
APPROXIMATELY 500 TOWNSHIP
ISLAND PARCELS STILL EXIST
BETWEEN THE THREE TOWNSHIPS
WITHIN THE CITY'S ULTIMATE
SERVICE AREA.
RECENTLY LAURA APPROVED THE
ANNEXATION OF 26 VACANT PARCELS
IN SOUTH TOWNSHIP BUT DENIED
THE CITY'S PETITIONS TO ANNEX
PARCELS IN ANERA AND PITTSVILLE
TOWNSHIPS THAT WAS AROUND TO
OF OUR CITY INITIATED
ANNEXATIONS THE THAT DECISION
WAS CONTESTED BY OUR ATTORNEYS
OFFICE AND ON JANUARY 11TH,
2003 THE DIRECTOR OF LAW
APPROVED THE ACCESS PORTION
OF THE 11 AND TOWNSHIP PARCELS
BEFORE THIS EVENING BUT DENIED
THE ANNEXATION OF THE REMAINING
PARCELS NOW THAT THE ELEVEN
PARCELS HAVE BEEN ANNEXED, A
CITY ZONING DESIGNATION MUST BE
ESTABLISHED.
>> STAFF RECOMMENDS R1 A FOR
ALL OF THE PARCELS SINCE THEY
ARE SURROUNDED BY ERWINAZE
ZONING AND SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE LANDY'S
ELEMENT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT THE
PETITION BE APPROVED BECAUSE
THE PARCELS ARE WITHIN THE
CITY'S ULTIMATE SERVICE
BOUNDARY AND ARE CONSISTENT
WITH THE USES AND INTENT OF THE
R-1 A ZONING DISTRICT AND OR
ONE A IN THE ERWINAZE ONLY
DISTRICT IS COMPATIBLE WITH
SURROUNDING ZONING DISTRICTS
THAT MY STAFF REPORT OK WE WILL
MOVE ON TO PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK.
>> IT IS GETTING LATE PEOPLE
SORRY FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP
TO THREE MINUTES.
>> WELL FIRST CALL IN FOLKS
HERE AND THEN MOVE REMOTELY FOR
THOSE LISTENING REMOTELY.
>> PRESS NINE ON YOUR PHONE OR
RAISE HANDS FOR THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 843 FIVE
247 INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX TO MUTE PRESS STAR
SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS.
>> I THINK YOU ALL KNOW THE
REST OF THIS SO LET'S SEE IF
ANYBODY HERE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION.
>> IF SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS PLEASE COME ON UP.
YES MY NAME IS ROBERT BURNS.
I'M TWO FOUR SIX SIX ONE OF THE
SEVEN PROPERTIES THAT IS TO BE
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY.
I JUST FOUND OUT ABOUT IT
WITHIN THE PAST FEW WEEKS.
I THINK IT'S EFFECTIVE AS
OF THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR
AND I WAS INITIALLY OBJECTING
TO THE ANNEXATION PART OF A
LARGE GROUP THAT PETITIONED THE
BOUNDARY COMMISSION AND YOU MAY
KNOW THE HISTORY THERE WAS A
BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN THE
BOUNDARY COMMISSION AND THE
CITY AND IT WAS BROUGHT BEFORE
A JUDGE AND THE DECISION WAS
MADE TO EXEMPT MOST OF THE
PROPERTIES EXCEPT FOR THE SEVEN
PARCELS OF WHICH I WAS ONE ONE
OF MY POINTS THAT I MADE WHEN I
SPOKE BEFORE THE BOUNDARY
COMMISSION WAS THE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE NOT
THE ANNEXATION PER SAY BUT THE
DAMAGE DONE TO THE ENVIRONMENT
WITH THE REMOVAL OF TREES,
VEGETATION
BECAUSE OF THE
INSTALLATION, THE FORCED
INSTALLATION OF UTILITY LINES
WAS WATER AND SO FORTH.
THAT'S GOING TO BE PARTICULARLY
IMPACTFUL ON MY PROPERTY AND
SEVERAL LARGE TREES ARE GOING
TO BE HAVE TO BE REMOVED TO
PROVIDE THE WATER ACCESS AS
WELL AS THE SEWER ACCESS.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MENTION TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AS WELL
AS THE CITY COUNCIL THAT THIS
IS A FACTOR THAT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED IN THE FUTURE.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
OF ANNEXATION AND THE FORCED
HOOKUPS OF SEWER AND WATER.
I THINK THE THE NUMBER OF TREES
THAT ARE GOING TO BE HAVE TO BE
REMOVED FROM MY PROPERTY AND
OTHER PROPERTIES NEEDS TO BE
CONSIDERED WHEN TAKING INTO
ACCOUNT FUTURE ANNEXATIONS.
SO THAT WAS THE MAIN THING I
WANTED TO MENTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
>> ANYBODY IN LINE VIRTUALLY WE
DO CALL THE PHONE NUMBER
ANYWHERE THREE FOUR ONE YOU CAN
PRESS STAFF SIX TO ANSWER YOUR
PHONE AND ADDRESS THE
COMMISSIONER FOR THREE MINUTES
WILL GO OH I'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
THE PUBLIC HEARING ABOUT EXCUSE
PLANNING.
OH THIS IS GEORGE WHO IS THE
SAME TYPE OF THINGS THAT YOU
KNOW EXCUSE ME.
WE HAVE ANOTHER TIME IN THE
AGENDA WHERE YOU CAN SPEAK ON
WHAT YOU'RE YOU'RE COVERING.
BUT RIGHT NOW THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS FOR THE ANNEXATION
AND IF YOU CAN BE PATIENT YOU
HAVE TO WADE THROUGH THIS TEXT.
>> I WOULD HAVE BEEN OK.
YEAH.
SO IF YOU CAN JUST LET US GET
THROUGH THIS NEXT AGENDA ITEM
THEN WE JUST HAVE A COUPLE MORE
BEFORE YOU'D HAVE A CHANCE TO
BE ABLE TO SAY SOMETHING.
>> OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
UH, ANYBODY ELSE ALEX LOWE, YOU
HAVE FEW MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
I WAS CALLING SDD THAT OVER
ONCE AGAIN I WANT TO DEFAULT
ZONING THAT SEEMS TO BE ON HOLD
AT TAXATIONS IS THAT IS THAT'S
PROVIDED IS IS BASICALLY
WHETHER TO ASK THIS AT LEAST
USEFUL PIECE OF LAND IN THE
CITY ISSUE DO YOU FEEL TO DO
YOU ARE LOOKING FOR TO SEE WHAT
I CAN GET GET NEGOTIATED DOWN
FROM THERE PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE OK I READ THE
MOTION WHICH IS THE ANNIVERSARY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE TWO SEVEN
SEVEN FIVE NEWPORT ROAD TO
SEVEN THREE SEVEN NEWPORT RHODE
246 SIX NEWPORT RHODE TWO THREE
FIVE FOUR NEWPORT RHODE TWO
THREE ONE EIGHT NEWPORT ROAD
TWO ONE OH WAIT NEWPORT RHODE
149 BYRD RHODE THIRTEEN SEVENTY
FIVE BURT ROAD TWO ONE ONE SIX
VICTORIA CIRCLE TWO ONE ONE
EIGHT VICTORIA CIRCLE AND TWO
ONE ONE FOUR VICTORIA CIRCLE
FOUR REZONING TO R-1 A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING THEY HAVE
EMOTION COME COMMISSIONER
SECOND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SO THE DISCUSSION COMMISSIONER
WIJDAN ALL RIGHT SO WHILE I
APPRECIATE THE CAREFUL ANALYSIS
THAT HAS BEEN CONDUCTED TO
BRING THESE TOWNSHIP ISLANDS
INTO THE CITY, I FIND MYSELF IN
OPPOSITION THIS PROPOSAL FOR
THIS AREA TO BE REZONE ARE ONE
A OUR CITY IS CURRENTLY FACING
A PRESSING HOUSING CRISIS AND
IT'S CRUCIAL THAT WE UTILIZE
EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE
MORE HOUSING, PARTICULARLY
DENSER HOUSING THAT CANNOT
ACCOMMODATE MORE RESIDENTS AS
SUCH I WANT TO STAFF WHETHER
THERE WOULD BE ANOTHER ZONING
DESIGNATION THAT COULD WORK
HERE.
I WAS THINKING OUR FORESE BUT
WE DON'T LOVE OUR FACEOFF OR A
LOT OF REASONS BUT SOMETHING
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION OF MULTIFAMILY
DWELLINGS.
I RECOGNIZE THAT THE PARCELS IN
QUESTION INCLUDING THE LAND
THAT'S NEAR THE STEINER SCHOOL
PRESENT A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO
PRESENT OR TO MEET THIS
PRESSING NEED BY ZONING THESE
AREAS WITH A HIGHER HOUSING
DENSITY WE CAN INCREASE HOUSING
CAPACITY WHILE STILL ALLOWING
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
THEREFORE MAKING A VERY
VALUABLE CONTRIBUTION TO THE
ALLEVIATION OF OUR HOUSING
SHORTAGE.
>> SO ARE THERE ANY OTHER
OPTIONS BECAUSE AH ONE A HAS A
MINIMUM LATZA OF 20000 SQUARE
FEET THAT IS A VERY LARGE
FOOTPRINT.
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND
WE'RE BRINGING ELEVEN PARCELS
ELEVEN PARCELS AT 20000 SQUARE
FEET SO YEAH YOU MENTIONED THIS
IN YOUR INTERVIEW WITH ERM LIFE
ABOUT HOW WE CONSTRUCTED
OURSELVES TO TOO MUCH SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSING AND THAT AS YOU
WERE LOOKING BACK OVER YOUR 30
YEAR CAREER YOU HAD SOME
THOUGHTS ABOUT THAT SO I WAS
SURPRISED TO SEE THIS COME AS
OUR MONEY CITY COUNCIL HAS THE
ABILITY TO ZONE THESE PARCELS
WHATEVER WHATEVER THEY WOULD
LIKE TO ZONE THESE PARCELS.
I BELIEVE THAT THE MOST
APPROPRIATE PROCESS TO
RETHINKING ALL SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ALL SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS IS THE
UPCOMING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PROCESS.
>> I THINK CHOOSING ELEVEN
PARCELS ALONG THE NEW ROAD
CORRIDOR WHICH HAS LONG HAD A
HISTORY OF ERWINAZE ZONING AND
REZONING THEM TO MULTIFAMILY
WOULD BE INCONSISTENT WITH THE
CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
SO I BELIEVE THAT THERE IS
LIKELY GOING TO BE DISCUSSIONS
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF THE
UPCOMING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW THAT WILL INCLUDE WHAT
TO DO WITH SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
INCLUDING ZONING THAT IS OUR
URBAN AREA.
I'M GOING TO SEE IF ANYONE
WANTS TO ADD ANYTHING TO THAT.
>> NO, YOU CAN STICK AROUND
LONGER TO
ANY OTHER I MEAN I
DON'T WE CAN'T DO A LOT
OF POLITICKING AT THE TABLE SO
I DON'T KNOW IF I MAKE A MOTION
IF I WOULD FIND A SECOND AND
THEN A DISCUSSION ABOUT A
BETTER.
>> SO LET ME ASK YOU THIS
QUESTION IF IF YOU COULD MAKE
ANOTHER RECOMMENDATION, WHAT
RECOMMENDATION WOULD YOU MAKE
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING?
>> I WOULD I WOULD RECOMMEND
THAT PLANNING COMMISSION CITY
COUNCIL RETHINK A LOT OF THE
ELEMENTS OF SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING DISTRICTS AND THAT THAT
WOULD RESULT IN A MORE
CONSISTENT APPLICATION OF OF
OF THOSE CHANGES.
>> I THINK CHOOSING ELEVEN
PARCELS WOULDN'T BE CONSISTENT
WITH OUR OR OUR CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE I AM SURE I MEAN
I APPRECIATE ALL OF THAT BUT WE
DON'T GET A LOT OF OPPORTUNITY
FOR INBOUND ZONING CHANGES LIKE
THIS AND SO JUST ACCEPTING THEM
TO BE IN THEIR EXISTING ONES I
THINK JUST CEMENTS WHAT IS IN
PLACE AND WE'RE ALREADY
FOURTEEN YEARS OVERDUE WITH HOW
WE WANT TO USE THE LAND AND NOW
WE HAVE ELEVEN PARCELS COMING
IN AND WE'RE GOING TO SAY OH
WELL THEY'RE JUST GOING TO COME
IN AT TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET SO I MEAN MAYBE IF SOMEONE
MAKES A MOTION I WILL SECOND IT
AND THEN WE CAN HAVE A
DISCUSSION THAT WE LIKE IN
PLAYING SPACE YOU FIND OUT WHO
YOUR PARTNER IS.
>> YEAH SURE WHICH I WOULD ADD
ONE THING IS THAT SOME YOU WERE
INTERESTED IN EXPLORING
PARTICULARLY GOING TO OUR
FORESEE THAT WOULD REQUIRE
DIFFERENT UTILITY
RECOMMENDATIONS UNDER THE
CITY'S SPECIFICATION.
>> SO I I TOTALLY AGREE WITH
WITH GEOFF'S ARTICULATION.
>> I THINK THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS THE PLACE TO HAVE THAT.
I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE I JUST
THINK IT WOULD BE SORT
OF ARBITRARY TO THESE PARCELS
IN THE CONTEXT OF A LARGER LAND
USE PATTERN.
I THINK IT WOULD BE MORE
FRUITFUL TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION OVER A BROADER
LANDESBANK.
BUT IF I WERE SO INTERESTED WE
OF COURSE WE ARE HAPPY JUST
LIKE THE LAST POSITION AND
WE'RE HAPPY TO DO THE WORK
OF THE COMMISSION SPECIFICALLY
WITH OUR FORESEE THAT WOULD BE
ONE THING THAT I'D WANT TO
EXPLORE.
THIS WAS REVIEWED BY STAFF FROM
AN HOUR ONE PERSPECTIVE I
PRESUME THAT THAT WOULD BE
SIMILAR FINDINGS FOR R1 EIGHT
THROUGH MOST OF OUR DISTRICTS.
BUT ONCE YOU GO OUR FORESE WE
DO REQUIRE FOR EXAMPLE LARGER
LEVELS OF WATER SERVICE.
IT MIGHT BRING IN FIRE
SUPPRESSION DIFFERENT IT MIGHT
BE DIFFERENT.
A FIRE HYDRANT REQUIREMENTS SO
THAT MIGHT BE A DIFFERENT SORT
OF LAYER OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE
IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND
WHETHER OR NOT IT COULD
ACCOMMODATE THAT ZONING WITHOUT
SOME OTHER MORE SIGNIFICANT
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS.
BUT I'M SPECULATING AT THAT.
SO THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT
I WOULD SORT OF EXPLORE
IF THE
COMMISSION WANTED US TO DO SO.
COMMISSIONER DISH, WOULD THERE
BE A SIMILAR ISSUE AND SIMILAR
OBJECTIONS TO JUST IN OUR ONE
DESIGNATION WITH WITH A SMALLER
SIZE LIKE OUR ONE B YOU YOU'RE
WELCOME TO RECOMMEND WHATEVER
YOU YOU'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND BUT
WE ARE WE ARE RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THE R R WHEN FOR
CONSISTENCY OF COMMISSIONER
SAUVé I'LL OPEN THIS
CONVERSATION A LAND USE PATTERN
ACTUALLY ADJACENT TO MY HOME
PROPERTY IS THAT WE I'M ZONED
ARE ONE YOU ACTUALLY KNOW WHAT
WE ARE BUT OH THERE'S FOUR
PARCELS BECAUSE WE'RE ON LIKE A
HORSESHOE THAT FRONT PAULENE
WHICH ARE ALL ZONED ARE TO SO
ANYTHING THAT FRONTS A MAJOR
CORRIDOR IS ZONED ARE TO ANY
INTERIOR RESIDENTIAL PARCELS
ARE ZONED R1 SO SIMILARLY WE
HAVE SEVERAL PARCELS HERE ALONG
BYRD AND NEWPORT THAT WOULD
MESH A VERY SIMILAR PATTERN
NEXT TO MY SEE THOSE ACTUALLY
ARE TWO THAT ALLOWS DUPLEXES
RATHER THAN LIKE AN EIGHTY
RELATIVE TO THE SCALE AND
SIMULTANEOUSLY REDUCES LAP
SIZE.
>> SO THERE IS A PATTERN WITHIN
THE CITY FOR OUR TWO ADJACENT
TO OUR ONE RELATIVE TO THE
SCALE OF THE CORRIDOR AND THAT
SEEMS APPROPRIATE AT THE
PARCELS ON NEWPORT.
SO I DO KIND OF LIVE THAT MAYBE
TO THE TABLE AS A PATTERN I'VE
RECOGNIZED FOR REZONING THAT
WOULDN'T BE OUT OF CHARACTER
WITH OUR LAND USE PATTERNS
ACTUALLY MR. WISCH STAFF WHAT
WOULD BE THE IMPACT TO OUR TWO
INSTEAD OF OUR ONE?
IT WOULD IT HAVE THE SAME
UTILITY LOAD?
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT ANSWER.
WE IF IF IF THAT WAS THE
RECOMMENDATION PLANNING
COMMISSION MADE WE WOULD
PROBABLY PAUSE THAT
RECOMMENDATION BEFORE
PROGRESSING A CITY COUNCIL SO
THAT WHEN IT WENT TO CITY
COUNCIL WE COULD ADVISE CITY
COUNCIL WHETHER OR NOT THAT
FROM A STAFF PERSPECTIVE WE
THOUGHT THAT THE INFRASTRUCTURE
WAS IN PLACE TO SUPPORT THAT OR
NOT.
SO IF THAT WAS A DESIRED
PLANNING COMMISSION THAT'S
THAT'S MY THAT'S HOW I WOULD
LOOK AT IT.
I I WOULD PRESUME THAT OUR TWO
IS MORE SIMILAR TO OUR ONE BUT
I AGAIN I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
FOR A LOT OF TECHNICAL
EXPERTIZE ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION THAT HAS VETTED US
FROM AN R ONE PERSPECTIVE.
>> YES, I THINK MY CONCERN IS
THIS IS THE TIME TO DO IT.
I MEAN KICKING THINGS TO THE
PLAN WE'RE NOT WE HAVEN'T EVEN
STARTED THAT.
THAT DOESN'T START UNTIL JUNE
AND THEN IT'S GOING TO RUN FOR
EIGHTEEN MONTHS AND THEN
THERE'S GOING TO BE A SET
OF RECOMMENDATIONS THAT ARE
GOING TO GO ON FOR X MANY YEARS
AND WHO KNOWS IF WE'LL GET BACK
TO THIS.
AND SO I JUST THINK THAT THIS
MAKES SENSE TO ZONE IT FOR
SOMETHING DENSER THAN A TWENTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT LOT.
>> SO IF I WOULD TRY TO MAKE AN
AMENDMENT TO THIS, WHAT WOULD
STAFF PREFER?
WOULD YOU PREFER THAT I MAKE AN
AMENDMENT TO HAVE YOU GO BACK
AND LOOK AT THAT ARE TWO OR
WOULD YOU PREFER FOR ME TO MAKE
AN AMENDMENT AT THE TABLE FOR
IT TO GO FROM OUR ONE AID TO
OUR TWO?
>> IT'S STILL AT YOUR
DISCRETION.
I MEAN WE BELIEVE WE ARE ONE IS
APPROPRIATE IF YOU DISAGREE
WITH THAT I WOULD SUGGEST YOU
JUST MAKE THE MOTION WE CAN
AUGMENT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S STATEMENT ON THAT
TO THE CITY COUNCIL WITH ANY
TECHNICAL DETAIL AND PRESENT
THAT TO THE CITY COUNCIL IN
TOTALITY.
SO I DON'T FEEL LIKE YOU NEED
TO DIRECT US TO GO BACK AND DO
THAT.
WE CAN ANSWER THAT IF THAT'S
YOUR DESIRE.
I DID WANT TO CLARIFY, JEFF,
WHAT IS THE CONFERENCE PLAN SAY
ABOUT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD SINGLE
FAMILY?
>> SO AS A SINGLE FAMILY SO I
JUST WANT TO I JUST WANT TO
HIGHLIGHT TO GO TO OUR TWO IS A
DISTINCTION FROM OUR PLAN MAP.
>> HOWEVER, THERE ARE OTHER
RECOMMENDATIONS START COMPANY
THE TALKS ABOUT HOUSING, THE
DEVELOPMENT OF HOUSING TYPOLOGY
AND AND ALONG CORRIDORS AND
SEEKING MULTIMODAL, YOU KNOW,
OPPORTUNITIES SO THE MAP IS NOT
THE ONLY CRITERIA.
SO BUT IN THAT CASE THAT MAP
DOES SUPPORT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION AND IT JUST TAKE
THAT JUST TAKE THAT IN YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
>> I MEAN HOW THAT PLAN IS
REGARDLESS OF ITS AGE HAS BEEN
AFFIRMED AS YOUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND IT IS YOUR POLICY
DOCUMENT TODAY.
SO I WOULD NEVER SUGGEST YOU
ABANDON IT UNTIL YOU HAVE A NEW
POLICY DOCUMENT IN PLACE.
OK, SO I'M SORRY MR MILLS, IF
YOU WERE KEEPING ON GOING ON
THAT THOUGHT KEEP ON GOING UP
ONE OF THE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT STRIKES ME IN THIS
CONVERSATION IS BASED ON SOME
OF THE COMMENTS THAT WE HEARD.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW THIS THIS
IS TRUE OF ALL THESE TOWNSHIP
ISLAND OR ALL OF THESE ANNEX
PARCELS BUT MANY OF THEM ARE
NOT CURRENTLY SERVED BY THE
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SO I I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE DECISION
DISTINCTION LIKE WHAT THE PLAN
IS THERE BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
ANY LINE RIGHT NOW.
>> RIGHT.
SO PLANNING FOR EXPANSION FOR
DIFFERENT DENSITIES IS
DIFFERENT LIKE EXTENDING
UTILITIES BASED ON KIND OF WHAT
WE'RE ANTICIPATING.
AND I'M JUST CURIOUS FROM A
PLANNING PERSPECTIVE HOW THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
UTILITY LIKE HOW THAT
CONVERSATION HAPPENS BETWEEN
YOU KNOW, WHAT IS VISION FOR
WATER AND SEWER GOING ACROSS
THESE PLACES AND HOW THAT
INTERSECTS WITH ZONING WATER
QUESTION.
AND THIS THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO WRESTLE
WITH SO RIGHT NOW OUR PUBLIC
SERVICES DIVISION IS STARTING
TO DO SOME ANALYSIS OF SOME
OF OUR SYSTEMS.
I THINK THE FIRST ONE THAT
THEY'RE DOING IS SANITARY.
OUR SANTER'S SYSTEM AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE GOING
HAVE TO RECONCILE AS A
COMMUNITY IS DO WE WANT TO
CONSTRAIN OUR LAND USE
DECISIONS AROUND THE CAPACITY
THAT WE HAVE WITH OUR SANITARY
SEWER SYSTEM OR DO WE WANT TO
IDENTIFY POLICY POSITIONS ABOUT
HOW WE WANT OUR LAND USE
PATTERNS TO EVOLVE AND INVEST
THE SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL TO
UPSIZE OUR SANITARY SEWER
SYSTEM TO ACHIEVE THAT WE CAN
DO IT EITHER WAY.
I THINK THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WILL WRESTLE WITH THOSE
ISSUES.
>> I DON'T HAVE THE ANSWER NOW
AS IT RELATES TO THE REPORT
ABOUT WHAT INFRASTRUCTURE THERE
IS THERE, HOW AND WHAT
INFRASTRUCTURE IS NOT THERE,
WHAT THE CITY'S CAPITAL
EQUIPMENT IS ALL I CAN TELL YOU
IS THAT OUR FORESE IS A BRIGHT
LINE IN OUR ENGINEERING
STANDARDS AND SO WHEN YOU'RE
MORSEY IT'S REQUIRES A HIGHER
WATER MAINS LICENSE AGAIN, I
DON'T THINK THE SAME APPLIES TO
R TO I THINK OUR TWO IS MORE
OF A I AS I RAISED THAT'S SORT
OF MORE OF A DEVIATION FROM ONE
ASPECT OF OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN BUT IT'S IT'S CERTAINLY AS
JEFF SAID IT'S YOUR THIS IS
YOUR YOUR DECISION.
WE'RE HAPPY TO PROVIDE ANY
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THAT
WOULD IT BE HELPFUL FOR YOU TO
DO SO WE'VE VETTED OUR ONE
BECAUSE THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH
THE IS THERE ONE FINAL THAT'S
THAT SORT OF RELATED TO THIS
THE BIG PARCEL IN THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF ALL OF THIS THAT IS
THE STEINER PROPERTY.
>> YES, GOOD.
BECAUSE WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT BUT
THAT'S THAT'S A GOOD CHUNK
OF REAL ESTATE RIGHT.
AND MAYBE NOT REDEVELOPED NOW
BUT LIKE WHAT IS I DON'T AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE ONE PLANS
ARE BUT AS I WAS LOOKING AT
THIS I THOUGHT LIKE THAT'S A
BIG THAT'S A BIG PROPERTY.
SO I DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW
WHERE I FALL AND IT'S LATE AND
SO MY BRAIN STOPPED WORKING.
>> COMMISSIONER WHICH I'M HAPPY
TO COMPROMISE TO OUR ONE D
BECAUSE THEN WE WOULD BE ABLE
TO GET FOR SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
IN A SUBDIVIDED OR ONE TWO AND
IT WOULD STILL STAY IN THE R
ONE BUT IT WOULD AT LEAST
CREATE A LITTLE BIT MORE
DENSITY AS OPPOSED TO HAVING A
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT LOT
.
>> SO SO THAT MOTION WOULD BE
TO AMEND THE MOTION TO
SUBSTITUTE R1 D FOR OUR OWN SO
MOVED.
ALL RIGHT.
DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION MR
SAUVé.
UM THIS THIS IS KIND OF LONGER
THINGS TOO BUT IT DOES KIND
OF RAISE SOME OF OUR CONDITIONS
RELATIVE TO CULOTTES.
>> WE MIGHT HAVE LIKE A NARROW
FRONT THAT SLIPS WITH A LARGER
ONE BEHIND AND HOW OUR LAND USE
KIND OF ALLOWS FOR DIFFERENT
TYPES OF PARCELS SPLITS OR
PRIVATE DRIVES TO ACCESS ON
THEM.
>> SO IT'S JUST KIND OF MORE
SERRATIONS AS WE'RE MOVING INTO
SOME OF THESE PARCELS FOR IDEAS
BECAUSE WE WANT TO CREATE
DENSITY AND IT MIGHT NOT ALWAYS
BE ADDAS.
>> SO I JUST KIND OF RAISE THAT
TO JUST FOR KIND OF A LENS TO
LOOK AT SOME OF THESE LARGER
LOTS THAT HOW THESE MIGHT SPLIT
WOOD.
>> I DON'T THINK WE ENABLE A
LOT OF INNOVATION YET FOR THAT
WE HAVE KIND OF VERY SINGULAR
WAYS TO DO LOTS WHAT BUT I LOOK
FORWARD TO SEEING INNOVATION SO
MAYBE SOMETHING COULD COME
ABOUT INSPIRE US TO HELP OUR
AUDIENCE AS LONG AS WELL.
>> SO I SUPPORT IT.
I'M SO I CAN DO IT BUT I JUST
WANT TO KIND OF OFFER THAT
DISCUSSION AND FEASIBILITY.
>> I SEE QUIZZICAL LOOKS AND
LOTS OF FACES WITHOUT
NECESSARILY RAISING HANDS.
>> ANYBODY WITH THE QUIZZICAL
LOOK WANT TO SAY SOMETHING ELSE
COMMISSIONER?
>> I WAS JUST CURIOUS FROM A
STAFF PERSPECTIVE ARE THERE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES OF SUCH
A MOVE THAT I'M NOT THINKING
OF OTHER THAN THE POSSIBILITY
TO DEVELOP MORE HOUSING UNITS
ON THE SAME A SAME AMOUNT
OF LAND
?
NOT THAT I CAN THINK OF .
NOT THAT I CAN THINK OF AT THIS
TIME.
THE USES ARE THE SAME.
I MEAN WE HAVE THE SAME USES AS
DIFFERENT SET BACKS.
>> YEAH.
UM YEAH OK.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT I THINK
IT'S SAFE TO SAY THAT STAFF
LOOKS FORWARD TO A COMMUNITY
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT TO DO
WITH 22 PERCENT OF THE CITY'S
LANDMASS.
IT IT MAY BE EVEN MORE THAN
THAT.
>> I THINK THE THE POINT THAT
COMMISSIONER WHICH MADE WAS WAS
A GOOD ONE TWENTY TWENTY
THOUSAND SQUARE WITH MINIMUM
LOT SIZES ARE AWFULLY LARGE AND
I I DO THINK THAT NOBODY AT
STAFF WANTS TO DEFEND THAT BUT
WE'RE JUST WE'RE LOOKING AT
THIS MORE SO MORE FROM A
PROCESS STANDPOINT AND AND
MAYBE A STANDPOINT OF OF
OF APPLYING OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN A COMMISSIONER DOES THEN
COMMISSIONER WHICH I I THINK
UNLESS I'M MISTAKEN THAT MOST
OF THESE PARCELS HAVE HOMES ON
THEM.
>> MOST DO ALL BUT ONE.
SO IF I'M WEIGHING THE
COMMITMENT TO HAVING A
COMMUNITY CONVERSATION AROUND
WHAT TO DO ACTUALLY WE'VE
ALREADY ASKED FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO COME BACK
WITH HOW DO WE ACHIEVE GREATER
DENSITY.
>> WE ACTUALLY HAVEN'T LEFT IT
WIDE OPEN AND SAID YOU LET US
KNOW WHAT YOU THINK ABOUT
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING.
WE'VE ACTUALLY ASKED FOR
SUGGESTIONS FOR HOW TO ACHIEVE
GREATER DENSITY SO I DON'T
THESE PARCELS HAVE THINGS ON
THEM, HAVE HOMES ON THEM NOW
THEY HAVE 21 MONTHS TO MAKE THE
TRANSITION TO CITY SANITARY AND
UP TO TEN YEARS TO CONNECT TO
CITY WATER.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY OF THEM
ARE GOING TO JUMP RIGHT IN TO
GET UNDER THAT 21 MONTHS.
>> BUT YOU KNOW THE THE WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TIME TO HAVE THE
THE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ADDRESS THE QUESTIONS THAT
WOULD ATTEND ACHIEVING GREATER
DENSITY CITYWIDE ON SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING AND SO I'M NOT
SURE HOW MUCH IS GAINED BY OUR
ENABLING DENSER ZONING ON
ELEVEN PROPERTIES THAT HAVE
HOMES ON THEM ALREADY.
>> I MEAN IN THE NEXT TWO YEARS
DO YOU THINK SOMEBODY IS GOING
TO RAISE THEIR HOUSE AND PUT
THREE ON IT IF THEY WANTED TO
THEY COULD WRITE THEY HAVE COME
TO US AND SAY PLEASE RESOLVE
THIS SO I CAN SUBDIVIDE RIGHT.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW I FEEL LIKE
IT'S MORE SYMBOLIC WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW AND SO
MAYBE THAT DOESN'T MEAN IF I
FELT LIKE IT MADE A MATERIAL
DIFFERENCE I MIGHT CARE MORE
BUT MAYBE FOR THE MAYBE FOR THE
SYMBOLISM FOR THE SYMBOLISM
OF COMMUNITY DISCUSSION OVER
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> YEAH, OK.
COMMISSIONER RELATED I SEE THAT
YOU HAD A HAND UP NO OK MR I'M
SORRY.
>> YES PLEASE.
NO NO NO NO NO I MEAN IF YOU
WERE I CAN I CAN BE QUICK I
THINK THERE'S THAT MUCH HANGING
ON THIS DECISION BUT I'LL SAY
THAT WHILE THEY MAY NOT BE THAT
MUCH GAIN I THINK THERE'S ALSO
MAYBE NOT MUCH LOST.
>> I CAN KIND OF I CAN KIND
OF SEE BOTH SIDES AND I THINK
JUST ALL OF US UP HERE
UNDERSTAND INTIMATELY HOW LONG
IT TAKES.
AND SO WE WERE I WOULD SAY THAT
IF THE CITY IS POISED TO TAKE
ON A TRANSFORMATION AROUND OUR
ONE ZONING THE DAY WHEN THAT'S
ACTUALLY GOING TO GET PAST THE
CITY COUNCIL IS THREE TO SIX
YEARS AWAY.
>> SO AND I THINK IN THAT TIME
IT'S PERFECTLY POSSIBLE THAT
SOMEBODY COULD DIVIDE AND AND
BUILD TWICE AS MANY OR THREE
TIMES AS MANY HOMES ON SOME
OF THESE LOTS.
SO I ALSO IT'S ONLY A FEW LOTS
SO BUT I THINK I WOULD BE IN
FAVOR OF A AMENDMENT TO AH TWO
THINGS AH TWO OR AH ONE DAY OR
TWO ALREADY THAT OUR FIRST TEAM
WHICH IS A CITY MIDDLE OF THE
TOWN DO YOU WHAT DO YOU WANT.
SO FIRST OF ALL THANK YOU MR
FOR SAYING THAT STAFF WOULD NOT
DEFEND AH ONE DAY.
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE THAT.
I THINK I THINK THAT'S A
HELPFUL SIGNAL AT LEAST FOR ME
TO UNDERSTAND THAT YOU WERE
JUST USING A PROCESS APPROACH
NOT A EDITORIAL APPROACH FOR
THIS WHICH MEANS WE HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THIS MODEST
SYMBOLIC CHANGE TO NOT ZOHN
SOMETHING AT 20000 SQUARE FEET.
IT DOESN'T MEAN LIKE YOU HAVE
NOTICED THERE ARE ALREADY
DWELLINGS THERE.
THEY WILL PROBABLY CONFORM TO
THE ARWANI BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
YOU RECOMMENDED SO THEY'LL COME
ALREADY BIG FOOTED AND NOW
THERE WE CAN MAKE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THERE TO BE
MORE DENSITY IF SOMEONE WANTS
TO.
>> AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO
SHARE THIS JUST TWO THINGS FROM
THE ROOF THE RESOLVE CLAUSE
THAT CITY COUNCIL ADOPTED WHEN
THEY INITIATED OUR CITY
PLANNING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW.
IT'S THE SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE
IN CONTEXT OF LARGELY IN THE
CONTEXT OF A LARGELY DEVELOPES
CITY.
THEY ARE EXPECTING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF ADDING NEW
HOMES AND DENSIFICATION AND
SINGLE FAMILY ZONED AREAS AND
OTHER AREAS AND ZONING
DISTRICTS.
AND SO FOR ME THIS IS JUST
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT CITY
COUNCIL HAS ALREADY SAID AND WE
JUST DO IT AT THE TABLE AND
SEND IT ALONG TO THEM.
THEY CAN ALWAYS CHANGE IT.
AS MR KHAN SAID, THEY GET TO
DECIDE WHAT THE ZONING IS BUT
THIS SAYS LET'S AT LEAST PUT A
LITTLE BIT MORE ON THESE SLOTS.
SO THANKS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
I HAVE A PROCESS QUESTION WITH
THIS ONE BECAUSE IT WASN'T
POSTED THIS WAY AND THERE'S A
BUNCH OF PEOPLE THAT LIVE HERE.
DO WE HAVE ANY OBLIGATION WITH
THAT OR IS IT IS IT JUST LIKE
THEY THEY HAVE FROM NOW TOLD
CITY COUNCIL AND THAT'S THEIR
CHANCE?
>> I'M JUST CURIOUS HOW THAT
WAS I MEAN IT'S STILL A
REASONABLE PARCELS.
ANYBODY WHO'S INTERESTED IN
THIS WAS MADE AWARE BUT IT IS
POSSIBLE THAT SOMEBODY WAS
PRESUMING IT WAS GOING TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE SURROUNDING
AREA BUT IT WILL BE RE NOTICED
THA THAT'S WHAT THE CITY
COUNCIL WITH THE UPDATED
MODIFICATIONS YOU CAN MAKE
ADJUSTMENTS JUST LIKE THE CITY
COUNCIL TO MAKE ADJUSTMENTS I
MEAN ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
OK ARE WE READY THEN FOR A VOTE
ON THE MOTION TO SEE THE MOTION
IS TO MODIFY THE RECOMMENDATION
FROM THE PLANNING LISTEN TO
REASON THE ELEVEN TO OUR ONE D
INSTEAD OF ALTERNATE KOSAKA
BRANDL YES COMMISSIONER.
SO YES COMMISSIONER EVANS YES
COMMISSIONER DISH YEAH
COMMISSIONER WE KNOW
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
MR MILLS.
YES COMMISSIONER WHICH YES
MOTION CARRIES ON NOW WE MOVE
ON TO THE ACTUAL VOTE CORRECT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
SO NOW THE MOTION IS
RECOMMENDING REZONING OF THE 11
ANNEX PARCELS TO OUR ONE DENHA
DO I HAVE TO READ THEM AGAIN?
>> NO, NO GOOD.
>> THAT'S YEAH.
>> OK, SHOULD WE CALL THE
ELECTORATE ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> YES.
OR ANY OTHER DECISION.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE'VE DISCUSSED
THIS.
>> YES YOU'RE VERY CORRECT.
ANY ANY OTHER FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
OK, ALL RIGHT COMMISSIONER
RANDALL.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
YES YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER.
>> YES COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES YOU'RE RIGHT.
YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
>> WE ARE ON OTHER BUSINESS
OF WHICH WE HAVE NONE.
WE HAVE ONE MORE OPPORTUNITY
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> SO WHOMEVER WAS ON THE LINE
THIS WOULD PROBABLY BE THE TIME
TO SPEAK ON I GUESS I DO I HAVE
TO READ THIS AGAIN.
>> JUST CURIOUS.
OH SO THERE ARE THAT IS
COMMUNICATE TO ANYBODY IS
WATCHING YOU ON UNIVERSITY AND
IF THEY WOULD LIKE INSTRUCTION
ON HOW TO PROVIDE ERM PUBLIC
COMMENT SO I WOULD RECOMMEND
YES OK THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PRISONERS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS ON THIS OR ANY ANY
ISSUE THAT IS THAT IS ON THE
AGENDA.
>> OUR FIRST CALL IN
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
PROMOTE PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR THE
RAISE A HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INTO THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL 877 843 FIVE 24/7
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESTER
SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS.
>> YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE THROUGH FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN ORDER AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
>> PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
FOR EITHER METHOD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
HELLO AGAIN
SO I JUST WANT TO GO BACK TO
THE SOUTHTOWN DISCUSSION FOR A
MOMENT.
I SORT OF BEGAN IN MY EARLIER
COMMENT BY SAYING I WAS A
LITTLE BIT DISAPPOINTED WITH
WITH THE PROCESS THAT WE WERE
MAKING IT TOO HARD TO GET TO
GET THIS THROUGH AND NOW THE
DISCUSSION TONIGHT WAS EVEN
EVEN WORSE THAN I FEARED.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE ARE SO AFRAID
OF GETTING AN IMPERFECT RESULT
THAT WE'RE GOING TO RISK MAKING
IT IMPOSSIBLE TO GET A GOOD
ONE.
AND YOU KNOW, I'VE COME TO THIS
PODIUM AND SAID THIS BEFORE BUT
REALLY I WISH IF THERE WERE ONE
MESSAGE THAT WOULD SINK IN HERE
IT WOULD BE DON'T MAKE THE
PERFECT THE ENEMY OF THE GOOD.
FOR MY PART I DO IN FACT THINK
THAT JUST ABOUT ANY SEE WHEN
THEY ARE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
PROPOSED SOUTH TURN LOCATION
WOULD BE BETTER THAN THE
CURRENT OUR FORESEE AND YOU
KNOW I DIDN'T SEE THIS BEFORE
BUT I GUESS IF I DID HAVE ONE
CONCERN ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
IT WOULD BE THAT IT'S TOO
PERFECT.
IT MIGHT GIVE US THE IDEA THAT
DEVELOPMENTS WITH SIMILAR
FEATURES COULD SUCCEED
EVERYWHERE IN ANN ARBOR AND WE
SHOULD DEMAND THEM ANYWHERE AND
EVERYWHERE AND DENY EVERYTHING
THAT FALLS SHORT.
I DON'T I DON'T THINK THAT
WOULD BE A GOOD RESULT BECAUSE
WE WILL LEARN MANY GOOD THINGS
FROM THIS DEVELOPMENT ASSUMING
IT MOVES FORWARD WE WILL HAVE A
BETTER IDEA ABOUT FEASIBILITY
BUT IT IS ONE ANECDOTE IN
DIFFERENT SITES DIFFERENT
CONDITIONS, DIFFERENT THINGS
MIGHT HAPPEN.
SO I REALLY JUST THINK WE NEED
TO BE MORE PERMISSIVE IN OUR
ZONING AND OUR DELIBERATIONS TO
MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR DEVELOPERS
TO GIVE US THE THINGS THAT WE
DO WANT INSTEAD OF SPENDING SO
MUCH TIME ON THE THINGS WE
DON'T WANT THAT WE GET NOTHING
.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ANYBODY REMOTELY?
YES.
CALL THE PHONE WITH THREE FOUR
ONE YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO
ADDRESS THE QUESTION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
YOU KNOW I GO TO
IT YES WE CAN
HEAR YOU.
>> PLEASE GO AHEAD AND SPEAK
UP.
OKAY.
MY NAME IS GEORGE WASHINGTON.
WELL I WORK AT WORK FOR YOU A
ROAD I'M IN THE PROXIMITY
OF THE NEW PROPOSAL WE USE THE
AND THE CONSIDERATION IS
OF OTHER MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS
IN OUR AREA.
I BELIEVE THAT GEORGE THIS IS
THE PROBLEM WITH THE POST TOO
AND WE SPOKE IN ALL AND IT WAS
DEVELOPED AS I SEE WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT SO FAR SO WHY
SHOULD WE CONSIDER WHEN THIS IS
SAYING SAME BE MORE INFORMED,
MORE USEFUL TO BE IT OR HAVE
SOME KIND OF PLAN FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING INSTEAD
OF OFFICE SPACE AND SO FORTH
WITH IN MY EXPERIENCE AND WHERE
I'VE BEEN TO SUCCESSFUL THANK
YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE QUEUE
,
SCOTT?
>> YOU KNOW YOU CAN NAME AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING QUESTION
FOR THREE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
STRUCTURE TO FIVE TO SIX FOR ME
.
>> I ALSO ADDRESS SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED AS A
RESULT OF RECEIVING RAINFALL
CONCERNS.
I THE CONCERN THAT WATER YOU
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT YOUR
HOUSING LORD NEWLY CONSTRUCTED
PURPOSE-BUILT TO YOUR COMPUTER
IN THE SAME WAY WE ARE SUPPLIED
THROUGH THE PROPERTIES THAT ARE
READY FOR THE HOUSE EVERY DAY
YOU ARE GETTING MORE HOUSING
YOU HAVE TO BRING UP SOMEWHERE
ELSE AND IT TO BE DON'T OR YOUR
AND SO YOU KNOW IT IS THE HEART
OF THIS AN OVERVIEW ON THIS
SITE AND THIS IS NOT A REASON
TO MIGRATE BECAUSE GOING
FORWARD ALTHOUGH I DATA IS
RENTALS AND PUBLIC POLICY
OPINION IS IMPORTANT AND SAYS
THERE HAS BEEN ONE APPRAISAL
CHANGE THE POLICY I'M SPEAKING
WITH MICHAEL I THINK HE WENT ON
TO SAY EVEN IF IT DOESN'T
BECAUSE THERE IS NO ONE TO OUR
KNOWLEDGE OF THE POLICY WOULD
BE FAR OFF THERE.
NOW WE HAVE AN URGENT SOONER
RATHER THAN LATER ALL THE WAY
TO MR.
ACQUISITIVENESS AND THE
DEFINITION OF WHAT THEY ARE IN
THE WORDS OF THIS VERDICT IS
FOR YOU TO HAVE THIS MIXED USE
OF THE SIGNIFICANT WORDS FOR SO
EVEN AT ALL YOU KNOW, ALL THE
GREAT STUFF WE ALL MUST BE
HAPPENING IS A THE VERY FOR THE
SAME REASON WHY WE ARE HERE AND
AND WE'RE SENDING A MESSAGE
THAT IT'S NOT AS USUAL AND THAT
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE DOING
ALL OVER THE WORLD AND WE'RE
GOING TO GO THROUGH THE PROPER
PEOPLE AND THE ONES OF THE
GREAT REWARD MONEY AND WE'RE
NOT GOING TO GET WE'RE NOT
GOING TO KEEP THE AMBITIOUS
GOALS THAT WE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALEX LOWE.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION I SALIX
COMING IN FROM THE SOUTH
SOUTHEAST.
YOU SAID ABOUT THIS WAS REALLY
FRUSTRATING TO WATCH REALLY,
REALLY FRUSTRATING.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A BLOCK
OF HOUSING AND I PULLED OUT
OF GAS AND STARTED LOOKING AT
AT THE END WHEN THESE HOUSES
WERE BACK 19, 20, 19, 20, 19
OLD ONE 19 50 FOR THESE OLD
BUILDINGS THAT ARE OVER 70
YEARS OLD.
THEY HAVE TERRIBLE, TERRIBLE
INSULATION.
THEY HAD TERRIBLE ENERGY
UTILIZATION WITH WHICH WE HAD
TO SOLVE THE BABY SITTING ON A
GOLDEN TRANSMISSION HERE AND
NOW AND NOW WE'RE COMPLAINING
BECAUSE BECAUSE IT HAS ITS TOP
WITH THE WRONG KIND OF CAVIAR,
IT REALLY, REALLY THIS IS THAT
THIS IS THIS IS THE BEST THING
THAT I'VE COME TO FIND PLANNING
COMMISSION IN A LONG TIME WITH
THE ONLY EXCEPTION BEING THAT
THESE ARE AMAZING.
I DON'T WANT TO KNOW.
SO COME ON, LET'S LET'S NOT
ARGUE ABOUT TITLE THINGS
BECAUSE BECAUSE WE'RE WORRIED
THAT THAT THAT THAT IF WE DON'T
GET THIS DEVELOPMENT WE MIGHT
GET SOMETHING WORSE THAT IS
STILL THOUSAND TIMES BETTER
THAN WHAT THEY'RE ALREADY DOING
COMPARED TO THE PERFECT
COMPETITION ONCE THEY'RE OVER
ALREADY THERE IS NOTHING THAT
CAN BE BUILT.
IT'S WHAT YOU SEE WHEN I SAY
THAT IS THE HUGE IMPROVEMENT ON
WHAT EXISTS ON KASOULIDES
.
NO MORE SPEAKERS COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS COMMISSIONER
MILLS MR. LEONARD, COULD YOU
PLEASE ADD IN TWO HOURS OUR
WORK PLAN AND ANNOTATION WHERE
WE HAVE OUR FORESE
NONCONFORMITY IS TO THE THE
TABLE FROM THE SITE PLAN TODAY
OR FROM THE STAFF REPORT FROM
THE SOUTHTOWN
PROPOSAL OR STAFF
REPORT THAT WE GOT TODAY.
>> CAN YOU CLARIFY WHAT YOU
WANT?
I WANT TO BE ABLE TO REFERENCE
BACK WHEN WE AS AN EXAMPLE FOR
SOME SORT OF FILE WHEN WE COME
BACK TO OUR FORESE THIS EXAMPLE
REMIND US OF THIS EXAMPLE SORRY
THAT'S THE YES REMINDS OF THIS
EXAMPLE AND SO SPECIFICALLY
THAT TABLE AND THIS IS NOT
SUPER HIGH PRIORITY.
>> BUT I I, I FEEL LIKE HAVING
SHORT TERM RENTAL BE AVAILABLE
TO THAT DESIGNATION IN ITS
ENTIRETY IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH AND THIS IS
KIND OF BRINGING IT TO LIGHT IN
A WAY THAT I WASN'T AWARE
OF BEFORE.
SO I KNOW WE HAVE ABOUT 85
THINGS IN OUR WORK PLAN.
>> OH BUT JUST AS A REMINDER
ONE OF THE WAYS THAT WE
ALLOCATE SHORT TERM RENTALS IS
IT'S A LOT IN THE SAME PLACES
THAT HOTELS SO HOTEL COULD GO
INTO THE SEA WHEN THEY ARE JUST
AS A REMINDER IT'S NOT A
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT THAT COULD
BE ALL OFFICE.
IT COULD BE ALL COMMERCIAL.
IT COULD BE A GROCERY STORE.
THERE'S NO REQUIREMENT
OF RESIDENTIAL IN THE SEA WHEN
THEY ARE SO I GET I GET WHAT
YOU TALK ABOUT BUT I JUST
WONDER IF YOU ARE REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE SEA WHEN
YOUR WHAT I'M HEARING IS YOU'RE
WORRIED ABOUT COMMERCIAL ZONING
AT THAT SITE BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK WE WOULD DIFFERENTIATE
BETWEEN HOTELS OR SHORT TERM
RENTALS AND SO I GUESS I WOULD
I CAN TAKE THE NO CAUTION.
I DON'T KNOW THAT YOU'RE
NECESSARILY SAYING THAT SHORT
TERM RENTALS INAPPROPRIATE TO
SEE WHEN THEY ARE.
WHAT I WAS HEARING A LOT
OF DISCUSSION AT THIS TABLE IS
ANOTHER ISSUE WHEN THEY ARE AS
APPROPRIATE FOR THAT LOCATION.
>> I GUESS THAT'S WHAT I'M
SAYING THEN.
>> YEAH.
SO THANKS FOR CLARIFYING THAT
ANYBODY ELSE I HEAR WHISPERING
OVER HERE IN RADIO?
NO.
>> OK, OK WE'RE ON TO
ADJOURNMENT THEN MOTION TO
ADJOURN COMMISSIONER MILLER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHY
ALL THIS IN FAVOR OF WE ARE
ADJOURNED